They had lost a ship today. They had rescued only a handful of the souls, wretched men half drowned and badly injured, before having to retreat. The French ship had them out-gunned but it was not as swift on the waves. Once certain that they were free, that repairs were under way and the injured being seen to, Captain Croft had retreated to his cabin and, it seemed, a bottle. He was slumped in his chair, the bottle itself in his hand, half empty; he had quite given up on using the cup, swigging it straight from the bottle. Lieutenant Wentworth stood before his Captain's desk considering the man before him. He had come to update him on the situation before retiring. Instead he found rheumy haunted eyes contemplating him.

“Sir,” he began, trying to order his words best, “Sir, repairs to the rigging are well on their way although they have had to stop for the night due to the light, and -”

“You look like her,” the Captain stated, apropos of nothing, confusing the younger man.

“Pardon sir?”

“My Sophy. You look like her,” the Captain was looking at him with such intensity that Wentworth found himself fighting the urge to fidget.

“She is my sister sir,” Wentworth ventured with a smile. “It would not be unexpected that there be some resemblance.” He tried for a light tone, ignoring the voice in his head that was contemplating what could have happened had this been one of the voyages she had come along on. Wentworth often, at least in his own mind, questioned the Captains policy of allowing Sophy to voyage with them. A day like today made that questioning all the more fierce.

“Yes. Your sister. My wife. Any more days like this and neither of us may see her again.” The Captain's eyes had drifted to the bottle in his hand. “She would be all alone. And it would be my fault. Both of us on the same ship, going off to sea, riskin' our lives. It's reckless.”

Without conscious decision Wentworth found himself kneeling before the Captain. “Sir.” He reached out to take the bottle. The Captain held firm and Wentworth did not wish to be either unfeeling or insubordinate in his attempts to wrest the bottle from the man's hands. “Captain, perhaps it would be best if you were to retire for the night? Sleep such morbid thought away.”

The Captain's eyes drifted from the bottle to Wentworth's face, looking at it contemplatively. The bottle became loose in his hands and Wentworth was able to take it easily. He twisted and put in in the cabinet behind him. As he turned back to face his Captain he was startled to find the Captain's hand on his hair, stroking. Wentworth's breath caught in his throat at the light sensation. His mouth felt dry.

“Soft. Like her hair. You look so like her.”

“Captain I do thi- “his lips fell silent as fingers pressed themselves, firm but drunk-clumsy, to his lips. The Captain gazed at Wentworth's mouth, and Wentworth could see his eyes track the movement of his fingers as he ran their tips along Wentworth's bottom lip. Wentworth's lips burned at the contact, his stomach clenched, as his lips parted with the ghost of a sigh. “Captain.”

“So full. Red. Like hers.” His Captain's finger slipped into Wentworth's mouth, at first tracing the shape of the space between the lips before sliding forward, past teeth, to run the pad of his finger along Wentworth's tongue. He pulled it back slowly, Wentworth felt his lips dampened with his own saliva, before pushing it back in. His lips never left his finger and Wentworth saw his Captain draw in a shaky breath. With startling clarity Wentworth realised the movement was not unlike that he had heard some ladies of the night provided: stimulating men with their mouths. Wentworth's face flushed, heart pounding, as he identified the look on the Captain's face as desire; he was sure he reflected it back. Wentworth did not know what he should do.

“Beautiful. Like her,” the Captain whispered, seemingly unaware that he had spoken let alone aware of the turmoil his words caused his younger companion. Wentworth gasped, involuntarily closing his mouth around the invading digit and swallowing. The Captain moaned but Wentworth did not react to the noise, his mind shocked as it envisaged his beautiful, proper sister kneeling before her husband as he was now. Perhaps even here, on one of their previous voyages, her eyes twinkling as she sucked on the finger in her mouth or- oh God- his shaft, her lips- red, he remembered the Captain's words- stretched to accommodate him. With shame Wentworth felt his mouth water and his manhood swell at the thought of taking his Captain in his mouth. He groaned, his tongue undulating round the finger in his mouth, his eyelids fluttering shut.

“Frederick.” The sound the Captain's voice saying his name brought him back to the present as the fingers withdrew from his mouth. He parted his eyelids, watching the retreating fingers, following them as they moved to the buttons on the fall-front of the Captain's breeches. The cloth was strained and Wentworth could clearly see the outline of the tumescent rod beneath. He wanted to look up, to ask the Captain what he was doing. He wanted to look away, stand, and walk out of the cabin, to escape from such ungodly behaviours. He wanted to reach out, his hand itched with desire, and help his Captain reveal himself. He did none of these things, frozen in ambivalent need. His breath was shaky with anticipation as the last of the buttons was undone and his, his cock- Wentworth thrilled at the illicit word- freed itself from the restraints of the clothing. Wentworth watched as his Captain took hold of himself, languidly stroking. He took in a faltering breath.

Wentworth had seen the equipment of other men before. Life on board made it near impossible not to do so. But never had he seen one so close before. There had never been a cock, swollen, red, at eye level with him in the past. He could not conceive what to do in this situation, his mind hazy, although he could not help but compare it with his own. It was thinner than his own but longer. It curved gracefully and it was leaking pre-cum from its tip. Wentworth's tongue darted out to wet his dry lips at the sight of it. From somewhere above him the Captain groaned. Wentworth did not glance up, enthralled.

The Captain's left hand, so far uninvolved in proceedings, joined its partner, the fingers reaching out to swipe the fluid from its tip. Wentworth's eyes tracked the fingers as they moved to his mouth, closing his eyes on contact as his tongue tentatively tasted the fluid. It was saltier than he expected, reminding him of the sea he had dedicated his life to. He swirled his tongue tip round the fingers, removing all trace of the fluid, a part of him missing the taste when it was gone. Opening his eyes, fingers still in his mouth, he looked up at his Captain. His eyes were black with lust and Wentworth found himself smiling suddenly. With his left hand he reached up, wrapping the fingers round the Captain's wrist, and pulling the digits from his mouth. Captain Croft looked disappointed until Wentworth's right hand reached out and took hold of his dick. The skin was smooth, hot, and though the ridges of his veins were different the sensation was both familiar and unfamiliar to Wentworth. He shuffled forward, closer, wetted his lips as he considered the object in front of him, pausing. This was a situation he had never expected himself to be in, that no good Christian man should be in, and yet his concern was not, he was amused to note, for his soul but rather on how to do this well.

“Frederick, you do not have to,” Captain Croft offered, his voice breathy.

“I know.” With that he leaned forward, pressing his lips to the head in a parody of a chaste kiss, before turning his head, smearing pre-cum on his lips, on his cheek. Parting his lips he licked, laved, his way down the shaft, humming softly. The Captain shifted in his seat, his hand visible in Wentworth's peripheral vision as it hovered, clenching and unclenching, as if it wished to reach out and touch him. Wentworth smiled, moving back to the head and parting his mouth further and, with determination, enveloped the Captain's shaft in his mouth.

nne touches at the back of her glove; through two layers of cloth, she is still chilled, and can hardly feel the movement of her fingers against her hand, only a muted sense that they ought to be near one another. The walk from the engravers' is long, and she is quite pleased she has little need for his services. If she could look down, she might recognize it properly: how her hands are fitted together, the way her long fingers are bent, knuckles like spider's legs, and the shine of the pretty gloves, warm for winter storms and new.

The winter has not been unduly harsh, having well passed through the first third. On the recommendation of several captains, they have taken up a residence, for the Navy must take its time with its officers, and cannot send them out like so many corks, bobbing and lapping in the waves. So they have taken to it, days out in the quiet bustle a town with no real permanent inhabitants to speak of, and clusters of nervous young men twisting through the wet streets: laughing with each other and unwinding when women walk by, and quickly regathering to touch their hats, shyly peeking out from their black hats. This setting unwinds below their windows several times daily, and Anne has observed it from behind her curtains, sufficiently to recognize the principal actors.

Out in the wind, Anne looks up at a window; the stripe to these curtains is a lighter blue than her own, light weakly billowing out from the interiors. It is very much the style which the wives of this town, accustomed to their own times and interests with their husbands away at sea, have collectively taken. Their numbers are steadily accumulating, although many women have stayed in their inland towns; it is the especially brave, or adventuresome, who have accompanied their husbands thus far, and Anne has observed several who have encouraged their husbands strongly and a fair few who would match Sophia Croft in their dedication!

She paces her step, moving like the sea. It is not so far from here; the walk could take her a few short minutes, and she would be alongside the ocean, quayside, nearly-freezing saltwater lapping at her feet. Thankfully, she is in her most useful shoes; warming from the inside, with high sides and smart seams; on cold afternoons like this one, she has tried moving her toes, as though she is a dancer in some ancient court, caring for the elegant points of her feet, and it is for nothing, only she never feels the slightest cold, even when she searches it out, sliding in the wet mud. It is hardly a graceful motion, more like a tree coiling against the wind then a dancer light at air, yet it reminds her that she is good and warm, distant from those without it.

The boots were a present from Frederick; he had been busied with accounts and fees all day, having gone into town for that purpose. Anne had met him at the door that evening, on his return, and he, having ascertained how much more sat in his accounts after the resumption of the war, had presented her with a number of fine things; ribbons and these boots. It is of a sort of fancy, that he will return laden with delights. Upon such occasions, Anne had thought of protesting, for she hardly needs such things, surely there is a far-better purpose? She had hazarded the whole line once, while at an attempt to lacemaking: while cutting and stitching the threads together again, with the slightest alternations, it had seemed a time to mention this, to offer her studied objections. She had not, looking up from her thread and seeing him contented and lit by the crisp fire, said anything at all. Upon this most recent occasion, she had merely offered the slightest movement of her brow, hardly registering yet she cannot do without her own comment, even with such prizes.

They are practical yet quite fine and highly valued, and she clips through the street, straightening her sleeves.

The wind nips in at her neck and wrists, winding up her coat like flames over kindling. She had stood out with Frederick, looking at the ships, and trying to best guess which would next depart. They had both read the Gazette more closely in the weeks following, and when her choice had departed before his, she had been very much delighted, and he had said that she had been learning rather well, from the state of the ship's paint to the announcements. In a different age, Anne would have gone to sea and they would have been very happy. She had stored away that brief high moment, and assiduously, saved and planned for what is wrapped safe in her pocket.

The buildings at the centre of town rise, and fall again, as she makes her way onward, to the ship that Frederick is to be inspecting today, Creusid a swell little beast. It is sharp-looking, even with its cannon disorderly in the procedures, and she watches with a good deal of interest while the tiny figures move on the decks, and confer. She stands apart, mindful of the shipyard itself, but firm in her conviction; she shall stand in this very spot. It is not quite how they met, for it is neither the quiet drawing room nor the busy party, and his departure will be wrung with fear. Yet this time it shall be for his person, for she is sure, as he is, of their love.

The sea rises, roaring dully in her ears, until she can hardly hear without it. This is a favoured place of hers – with the noise, Anne finds it easy to be contented, and only to be herself, not shaped by everything else. It is quite dramatic, as a feeling, and she very much enjoys it; as though she is alone in the middle of all this activity, and something certain and special is within her.

Busy in her thoughts, Anne hardly nods to the gentleman who tips his hat at her; she smiles at Frederick when she has come back to herself and realised that it is he.

"Our winter storm. This is what has held us in port, kept me here on land." Frederick reaches for her arm, and they cross their elbows together, beginning to walk. Anne looks back at the spray over the rocks, the tiny efforts that are helpless in the face of such weather.

She turns back to him. "It has not been so very bad on land, has it?" He leans to kiss her, pausing in the inlet of calm, between the grey-blue of the sea, and the grey-black of the town, the engraved cameo heavy in her pocket. She will give it to him when they are in their own warm rooms, the tiny picture facing her inscription:

yours ever constantly
AW

. June

Elizabeth had come down with an unseasonable cold, and in consequence of her being unable to attend the assembly, for the first time in Anne’s memory, she was introduced simply as “Miss Elliot.” Of course most of those in attendance knew her as Anne, just Anne, and that would not change, but she had so little to savour, and although she was not like Elizabeth (who, Anne was convinced, found delight in the title for the title’s sake), she liked the way it made people take notice.

The neighbourhood surrounding Kellynch-hall had never boasted many families, but from the size of the crowd in the assembly rooms, Anne was certain that all of them must have turned out for this assembly. There were Mr. and Mrs. Shepherd; their daughter, the new Mrs. Clay, with her husband standing solicitously at her side; every last Musgrove, including a few girls so young Anne marvelled at their being out in society; her father, speaking to Mr. Musgrove and eyeing the younger Musgroves with some disdain; Lady Russell, standing at Mrs. Musgrove’s side and observing the men’s talk; and in the corner, slightly apart from the rest, the Monkford curate in conversation with a man Anne had never met, but suspected to be Mr. Wentworth’s much talked-of younger brother, the naval officer who had received the rank of commander in consequence of the action off the coast of St. Domingo.

Anne did not realize she had been staring until Lady Russell appeared beside her and said, “Have you not been introduced to Commander Wentworth?”

“We are not acquainted.”

“I met him the other week when I was in town looking for a new pair of gloves,” Lady Russell said. “He seems an interesting fellow. Come, I’ll introduce you.” She hooked her arm through Anne’s and began to guide her through the milling crowds.

The brothers looked up at their approach. Mr. Wentworth nodded kindly at the ladies, and addressed Lady Russell, saying, “It is a pleasure to see you again. Miss Elliot, may I introduce you to my brother, Commander Wentworth?”

Anne curtseyed, and the commander bowed, but when she looked up his eyes were still on hers, and a rakish smile tugged at one corner of his mouth. He was, Anne admitted, everything one would expect of a naval officer: tall, with a lean but muscled build shown off to good effect by his dress uniform, still young enough that the skin of his face and hands had not been permanently toughened by sea salt and adverse weather. “It is a pleasure to meet you, Miss Elliot,” he said, that half-smile remaining in place even as he spoke.

“My brother is on leave at present, Miss Elliot,” Mr. Wentworth explained.

“For how long?” Anne inquired.

“That remains to be seen,” the commander answered. “Though if all of the assemblies are this well-attended, I may very well stay until winter.”

Anne smiled, feeling strangely at ease with him. There was something about his manner that appealed to her, and she found herself wishing that she might have the pleasure of joining him later that evening for a dance.

“Oh, but I dare say you’ll miss the open seas,” Lady Russell said, smiling benevolently. “Country life can provide constant comfort and occasional excitement, but little in the way of adventure.”

“True enough,” the commander replied, “but one cannot always go adventuring. And sometimes”—his gaze flicked sideways at Anne, though only for a second—“occasional excitement amidst general comfort is just what one needs.”

Anne was still deliberating as to the significance of that look when Mr. Wentworth decided to re-enter the conversation. “Lady Russell, you are too hard on this country life,” he said. “Surely, you have lived in this part of Somersetshire for many years without feeling yourself at a loss.”

“Oh, of course,” Lady Russell said. “But I am not a young man fresh from a long tour at sea!”

Commander Wentworth laughed. “There is some merit in your assessment, Lady Russell,” he said, “but you neglect to account for the things that a young man fresh from a long tour at sea might miss. Such as dancing.” And there was that half-smile again, as he took a half-step towards Anne and said, “You will save me a dance?”

Anne found herself mimicking Commander Wentworth’s smile as she said, “If you like, you may have the first.”

She was then obliged to leave his company, as another family approached and begged introduction, but when the musicians began to warm up, and she thought to look for him, she turned around to find him standing beside her. “I believe you owe me a dance.”

Anne couldn’t help smiling as he led her out into the space rapidly being cleared for use as a dance floor. They took their places at one end of the form, between couples with whom Anne was only slightly acquainted, but she cared not; her eyes were all for Commander Wentworth.

The music began, and all she could think of for a few minutes was dancing. This part of the country, it was true, did provide enough men that the women were not left to dance with themselves, but Anne’s sister was always given the privilege of the first dance, and despite Anne’s youth, she often was left sitting for the first round. But now she stood with a charming naval officer across from her, and she could not remember having danced with anyone better.

“You are remarkably light on your feet,” she commented, unable to keep the pleasant surprise from her voice.

“Dodging French bullets has a tendency to refine one’s agility,” he responded with a grin.

She allowed herself to laugh, bright-eyed and smiling. “I was not aware that many English naval officers had opportunity to come into contact with many French bullets.”

The commander smiled and said, “Not to disparage the captains I’ve served under—but I’ve been put in a situation or two where dodging bullets has been a useful skill.”

Anne could recognize bravado when she saw it in action, but the charismatic self-confidence that inspired his words drew her to him, making such objectivity impossible. “And what about when you are captain?”

This time the grin was fierce, and he had a far-off look about him as he said, “When I have a ship of my own, she’ll never be boarded. We’ll fight ship against ship, not man against man, and I’ll claim more in prize money than I could ever make in salary.”

The forms of the dance separated them briefly, and as Anne was handed from partner to partner, she thought about his comment, her imagination suddenly afire with the great battles and engagements of these wars in a way that the accounts of mere newspapers had never been able to incite. The man who danced so well across from her had fought for their nation against foreign forces, and returned victorious for the span of a summer. Had her admiration not been won yet, it would have been given over in full measure now.

“Do you miss it?” she asked when she returned to face him again.

“It’s as I told Lady Russell,” the commander said. “I have enjoyed my service, but it is good, at times, to be with family—and to have the pleasure of dances like these. One does not encounter very many ladies on the high seas.”

Anne blushed, but finished off the form in silence, not entirely sure how she ought to respond. Finally, as she and Commander Wentworth went up the dance, she said, “It must be hard to spend so much time away from the country you’re fighting to support.”

“But without the navy, someday I might not have a country to come back to,” Commander Wentworth replied. “I will admit, I’m incredibly fond of the profession. And it does reward those who are kind to it.”

“I am sure, then,” Anne said, “that you will be amply rewarded.”

The commander smiled and said, “So am I.”

The dance over, they bowed to one another. Anne was still flushed, her feet disbelieving; she wanted to continue dancing. There still remained another dance in the set, but after that—the rest of the evening would look so dull in comparison. She would have to dance with the Musgrove boy, and perhaps with some of the younger cousins as well. Charles Musgrove was not a bad dancer, but he was not a good conversationalist, and Commander Wentworth had spoiled her on both accounts.

So when he said, before the second dance had even begun, “Am I being premature to request another dance with you later this evening?”, it was as if someone had heard her innermost thoughts and decided, for once, to make them fact.

 

ii. July

The party had decided to take a walk, making the most of the blue skies and fresh air of a Somerset summer. Anne, Elizabeth, and Lady Russell had walked together into town, where they had been met by several others who had been invited to share their leisure.

Commander Wentworth had agreed to be one of the party. Anne had hinted to him the last time they had met—at a dinner party over in the area of Monkford—that she was fond of country walks, he had responded that he was fond of Tuesdays; no more needed to be said.

They were well along their walk now. Anne had stopped to examine a pretty spray of summer roses, thinking that this might be the summer when she rediscovered her oils and canvas and began to paint. “After all,” she said to Wentworth, who had graciously offered to stay back with her, “my sister Mary will return from school this winter with far more accomplishments than I can boast. I shall have to stay in practice if I have any hope of keeping up.” She stroked the petal of a rose with a single finger. “Next I suppose I’ll have to improve at the piano.”

“I have never understood the female drive to acquire so many ‘accomplishments,’ as you call them,” Wentworth said. “My sister tried to explain it to me once, but I don’t think she understood it well herself. At any rate, she was never one for painting or playing the piano.”

“And now she makes a profession of following the Admiral to foreign lands,” Anne said, turning from the roses to face him. “If all women lived their lives aboard ships, I suspect we would set much less stock by painting and playing the piano, having important things that needed doing. But even those of us who cannot go to sea must have some means of amusement.”

“Well, you can always go on country walks with handsome naval officers,” he quipped back, and offered her an arm.

Anne took his arm. “For as long as handsome naval officers are in the country,” she said. “But you will have to leave—and then who knows if you will ever return?”

“Miss Elliot, are you doubting my ability to withstand enemy action?”

Anne had doubted no such thing; she could not imagine the Frenchman brash enough to wound him. But she was beginning to realize that she feared the possibility that he would do all he said he would—become a captain and a hero, acquire the prize money needed to set him up for life, and return to England without returning to her. “No,” she said, “of course not.”

If she was quieter than usual on their return to town, at least she felt sufficiently content in the thought that Wentworth would not have noticed.

 

iii. August

Anne loved summer for a number of reasons, but high on the list was the length of the days, the fact that sunset would wait until seven or eight to arrive. When her father did not have company, he dined early, and so Anne often had the opportunity to take a walk in the grounds of Kellynch-hall after they had eaten. Sir Walter was quite proud of his shrubberies, but Anne preferred the slightly less manicured walks at the edges of the property, winding through stands of trees whose leaves filtered the late evening light in a flurry of greeny shadows.

Her mother had loved these walks. Anne could remember—just barely, it seemed—the time they had spent together here, in springs and summers long past, her mother a serene presence at Anne’s side. Now, Anne walked here alone, wishing for some of that ethereal calm that Lady Elliot had seemed to constantly possess.

A sound startled her, and she turned to peer through the dimming light. A man was walking toward her from the west, his features shadowed by the declining sun, but although she’d only known him for a few months, Anne would know that figure anywhere. “Commander Wentworth?” she said as he approached. “What brings you here?”

He stopped a few feet away, a hesitation she found uncharacteristic and surprising. “I—I remembered you sometimes took walks after supper,” he said.

Anne had mentioned it once, but then it had not been meant as an invitation. Still, she found that some company was better than none, especially when it was his company. “Would you care to join me?” she said.

He answered by stepping over to her side and offering her his arm; Anne pulled her shawl a bit tighter against the twilight chill and took it.

They walked in silence for a time, following the path through the trees that wound around the back perimeter of Kellynch-hall’s grounds, until suddenly Wentworth said, “I’ve been offered an opportunity to return to sea.”

Anne could feel her muscles tighten, and the silence after this pronouncement grew tense around them, but by some unspoken agreement they continued walking. “As a captain?” she said, after a moment.

He shook his head. “I’d still be a commander, but on a better vessel,” he said.

She nodded. “When would you have to leave?”

“The ship sails from Portsmouth next week, headed back to the West Indies,” he said. “I’d have to leave within a day or so.” They had reached a break in the path, where the trees thinned out, providing a clear view of the sky. Commander Wentworth paused there, and looked up at the sunset. “It’s a good offer. But I can think of a better one...”

He broke away from her suddenly, leaving Anne feeling strangely bereft, and with a disquieting feeling that this short break could presage an even greater rupture.

“You would still have to leave,” Anne said into the silence.

Wentworth turned around, and in the dying light Anne could see a strange sense of purpose in his eyes. Gone was the sense of mischief—or if not gone, then at least subordinated for the moment to something more serious. “I will have to leave,” he said, walking over to her and gently taking her hands in his own, “but I would like to have to come back. Miss Elliot—Anne—might I have the honor of coming back to you?”

Was this what happiness felt like? Anne could do nothing but look up at Wentworth, then down at his hands that held hers.

“I know my circumstances are complicated,” he continued, “but I don’t have to leave right away—and when I do, it’s only a matter of time until I’m made captain. And then it’s only a matter of time until the prize money—”

“Yes.”

He stopped in mid-sentence and looked at Anne with wonder, and a joy great enough to match her own. “Yes?”

Anne smiled. “Yes,” she said, louder this time, before leaning in to share the first of many kisses with her husband-to-be.

“Well,” he said a moment later, “I suppose I don’t have to leave quite yet…”

t was a fortnight before either Anne Elliot or Captain Wentworth thought to speak of their renewed attachment to any others. It was not a deliberate campaign, but Anne saw little reason to hasten her family's involvement, and he saw little reason to speak to anyone at all save Anne. Amid the to and fro of Bath, it was an easy feat to be frequently in each other's company, and if it is to be wondered that those around them did not perceive any alteration, then perhaps it may be noted that eight years of keeping a painful secret is good preparation for keeping a much happier one.

And so it was that the sight of Anne sitting alone at the piano-forte grew less frequent, and her sister Mary observed that Captain Wentworth was very good to help her out by turning pages so often.

"I have been recollecting the past," Captain Wentworth said on one of these occasions, "and I feel that I have been shortchanged in the exchange of information."

Anne smiled as she played; their shared past no longer held any fears for her. They had long since talked over all that was unpleasant, and Frederick's tone bespoke a more teasing reminiscence. She allowed a brief slide of her eyes to his face to confirm his disposition before returning her attention to the music in front of her, confident he needed no other response from her to continue.

"As I recall," he said, "we spent many an hour talking about my life on the sea, and yet I don't remember hearing anything much of your past."

"My past?" Anne said with surprise. "Have you forgotten that I was but nineteen when we met? I knew little of the world outside Kellynch."

"You knew little, but you had learned much," Captain Wentworth said. "It was only until I had spent more time in the world myself that I realised how uncommon were your intelligence and achievements." He paused, pleased to see he had made her blush, and overrode her demurrals. "Music, for instance," he said. "How came you to play so well, when neither of your sisters favors the instrument?"

Anne had received little enough praise from her family for her skill on the piano-forte and so to hear Frederick speak of her playing in this way caused her heart to swell and she reached out to brush her fingers against his as he leaned in to turn the page. She could hear him catch his breath before he pulled away. She played on a bit longer, thinking of how to best to answer the question. It was not in her nature to claim any special talent for herself, and to give credit to one party risked slighting the other.  

"I know not whether to ascribe it to my mother or Mrs. Smith," Anne said. "For it is to the first that I owe my early instruction, but I own that had she lived I would likely now play as ill as Elizabeth."

"Impossible."

"Oh, I assure you," Anne said, "I loved my mother dearly, but I fear I was quite an indifferent student. What I learned, I learned to please her, not because I had any real feeling for the instrument." She played in silence for a minute, remembering. "Then she died and I was sent to school in Bath, and this part you know, there I met Mrs. Smith, or Miss Hamilton as she was."

"Does Mrs. Smith play, then?" Captain Wentworth was both surprised at this intelligence and ashamed to be so.

"Ah, no," Anne said. "I did not mean that she was my tutor in this area as she was in so many others. But what she gave me was far greater, in many ways." She paused again, waiting for the page to be turned, and then resumed. "Mrs. Smith was the first to suggest to me that playing music might be a way to escape, and it was a time when I desperately needed one. I do not know whether I indeed believed her at first, but she was soon proven correct. The school had one piano-forte, a gift of a recently wed former student, and it was to there that I could repair to for hours at a time, with no fear of being disturbed."

Captain Wentworth looked at Anne's face, bent over the piano, and forced himself to remain calm. He vowed again to take her far away from this family that never appreciated her and reached down to touch her hand briefly before clearing his throat and turning another page. Anne looked up at him in surprise and he realised he had acted in advance of the music, but she just smiled at him and played on.

It was not until two days later that Anne had occasion to return the inquiry, when Mrs. Croft sent the two of them to Milsom Street to collect a particular package. (Mrs. Croft didn't really need the package, but she had observed Anne's new coolness to her cousin Mr. Elliot and had hopes of what this might mean for her brother. "Sometimes these things need a bit of a push," she told the Admiral.)

"Tell me more about your past," Anne said, pausing to admire the fabrics in a shop window.

Captain Wentworth groaned. "I have been talking of war all week. Sometimes I think there are more admirals in Bath than in Portsmouth." He looked up at the sky. "And it is such a fine day, surely we can talk of something sunnier."

Anne laughed. "Indeed, and I would remind you that I only requested stories from your past. You do have one that predates the Navy, you know."

He nodded, thinking, and the two of them proceeded down the street for a few minutes before stopping in at Molland's. Captain Wentworth guided Anne to a corner table and sat down across from her.

"I have thought of a story from my childhood," he said, "but it requires I reveal to you my last big secret."

Anne tried to suppress a smile. What dire act had Frederick committed at the tender age of six? Trampling his mother's garden, perhaps?"

"I am not the first Captain Wentworth."

Anne laughed, then held one gloved hand to her mouth. Frederick was trying to look grave, but she could tell he was near to laughing himself.

"Oh dear," she said, "is this where I hear about the mysterious older brother who ran away to the West Indies to become a privateer?"

At this, Captain Wentworth did laugh. "No, I'm afraid not. I have heard rumors along similar lines about a distant cousin John some years back, but I fear I know no more than that." Anne smiled but did not interrupt. "My case is far less sensational, yet still one I'd be loathe to have spread far and wide."

"The truth is," he said, pausing for the most impact, "it was my sister who first pronounced herself Captain Wentworth."

"Mrs. Croft?" Anne was delighted at the idea.

"Indeed," said the present captain. "There was a small lake on the edge of an estate near our village. It had long since been depleted of fish, and so the squire tolerated the village children to play there in the summer.  Somehow, perhaps from that same squire, Sophy obtained a skiff. It could barely float, but that mattered little. Edward and I, as the younger brothers, were pressed into service as midshipmen and made to call her Captain."

Anne could contain her laughter no more. "This is a wonderful story indeed. No wonder Mrs. Croft would rather be on ship than on shore."

Captain Wentworth looked up to the ceiling and sighed. "Yes, though now it is the admiral who must deal with her, thank my lucky stars."

"Ah, yes," Anne said, more serious. "You do not believe in women on board ships." Captain Wentworth opened his mouth to object. "No, no," she said. "Your position is quite clear. I must stay on dry land at all times."

Frederick saw suddenly that his earlier hasty statements were painting him a hypocrite. But surely Anne was teasing him? She couldn't possibly be planning to leave him for months at a time?

"Anne," he said, reaching out to touch her hand. The pleasure of her name on his tongue was still a newly rediscovered one, and he paused to savor it. "Anne," he said. "Of course you're coming on board. We've been apart for eight long years -- I don't want to lose any more time."

Anne let her expression relax. "No, neither do I. Which is why Mrs. Croft is teaching me all about mending sailcloth."

They smiled at each other, once again unaware of the outside world. Shoppers came in and out of Molland's, and the busy throng of Bath passed by outside the shop.

But as for Anne Elliot and Captain Wentworth, they were hundreds of miles away, on an open sea, with the wind at their backs.

She looks like an angel that got lost on her way down from heaven.

It's a ridiculous thing to think and yet you think it, staring at her from across the crowded assembly room. You have never seen anyone like her, not in London, not in Scarborough, not in all of England. You wish, covetously, that she were yours: a doll in your arms; a portrait in miniature; the dearest, most secret friend of your heart.

Her gown is six months out of date. You do not care in the least.

Your breath catches slightly as you realize that she is coming near you, part of a gaggle of women: all but one handsome and all but another young, all half-a-dozen of them lead by the ridiculous old knight that is your new neighbor, there to perform the introductions. Miss Bennet, she is called. You wondered, wildly, madly, what her Christian name might be and if you might someday be so lucky as to call her by it. Miss Bennet, you think, and you engrave that name upon your heart.

Charles asks her for the second set of dances. You can feel your stomach twist, sour with jealousy.

You get to know her better over a series of visits: she and her sisters to Netherfield, you and your sister to Longbourn, both households to any number of shared engagements in Hertfordshire. You find yourself liking Miss Bennet better every minute your spend within her company; however, the other Bennets fare rather less well with you (though Louisa is able to cajole you into admitting that Miss Eliza is probably the best of a bad lot, which is not saying much.)

You find yourself counting each treasured smile and then comes the moment when Miss Bennet looks to you with--dare you think it?--admiration. You decide to invite her to visit you on her own at the first convenient occasion.

Though, perhaps not when Charles is at home. You don't like the way he looks at her.

The convenient occasion comes not very many days later, when the men are invited to some sort of barracks room soiree--you aren't entirely sure what it is they are attending and you don't really care much, to be honest. Alone among women, it seems, you've never had any interest in soldiers.

As soon as they are gone, you dash off a note, hoping against hope that today is the day you might finally learn Miss Bennet's Christian name. When she appears at the door soaking wet, it's all you can do not to grin.

After all, she'll have to stay the night now.

Miss Bennet's name is Jane, but that doesn't matter anymore, because Miss Bennet is sick in bed with a cold that doesn't look at all triffling and you are positively wretched when it comes to caring for sick people, you are the absolute last person who should ever have charge of a sick room. When Miss Eliza comes it's almost a relief, no matter how mud-spattered her hem and impertinent her conversation.

Almost. Perhaps not at all. You don't mind Miss Eliza when she's tucked away caring for Jane--it's just every moment she's not in the sickroom that vexes you so. And of course, there's the matter of Darcy.

You aren't in love with Darcy. You never pretended to be. But he's a handsome enough man of good breeding and no little wealth--not to mention the Seat in Commons--and so ever since Charles introduced you to Darcy, you've felt proprietorial. As a woman you must marry and if you must marry you certainly could do much worse than Mr Darcy. He might be a bit taciturn at times, but he's certainly preferable to a brainless, preening dandy like Hurst. (Louisa may find it humorous that her husband takes longer on his daily toilet than she does. You don't.)

And of course, Darcy had never seemed to be all that interested in women. You'd liked that, too. Perhaps he wouldn't bother you after you bore him a son.

That was before. Now, however, he is head-over-heels in love with Eliza Bennet and it is all you can do not to scream. You feel betrayed, bamboozled, bereft. You weren't in love with Darcy, but he was yours and now? Now your only hope from that quarter is that Darcy is able to keep a clear enough head to remember that the wretched girl has no dowry to speak of and low relations.

Every day Eliza Bennet stays at Netherfield, the chances of that grow less and less likely.

You had begun to look forward to the ball if only to give you a chance to see Jane again, but once it had arrived you realized that your first instinct of dread had been completely, utterly correct. It was clear the moment you saw Jane gaze so very fondly at Charles when he wasn't looking.

She was in love with him.

Jane. Your Jane. In love with your brother, your twin brother. Who wasn't nearly as clever or handsome as you, who always let people cheat him out of stupidity and tenderheartedness. You knew Charles was in love with her--he fell in love so easily and your Jane is simplicity itself to love--but you hadn't realized that Jane herself--

She'd been so reserved with him. You honestly thought she'd felt nothing more than friendship with your brother.

You hate them both.

No. You don't. But this cannot go on. You cannot live in your brother's house and watch Charles and Jane fall more and more in love with each other as they forget about you. A Jane that is so close, yet so untouchable... this cannot go on.

Darcy is dancing with Miss Eliza.

You need to leave this place. Tomorrow.

In London you can breathe again.

At the start of it, Charles is a wreck, though he rallies tolerably in time. Given long enough, he'll forget about Jane Bennet. You wish you could.

At least there is Miss Darcy to distract you.

She isn't as beautiful as Miss Bennet and she's shyer than you remembered her being before--quite painfully shy, in fact--but she's a sweet, pretty thing and she thinks the world of you. And she's fond enough of Charles in her own way, but it's quite clear that she isn't in love with him. In fact, she seems quite wary of men now.

She blushes with touching humility when you make much of her, which leads you to praise her all the more. She lets you call her Georgiana. Her hair is smooth, her skin is soft. She's the most darling little thing, only a year removed from being a schoolgirl, and you want to wrap her in spun silk and keep her in your jewelry box forever.

You could quite easily fall in love with Georgiana, you think. She's such a good girl. She has that unselfish sweetness that Jane had with none of the reserve that kept you wary of showing the depth of your feelings until late. You don't feel awkward when you clasp your hands in hers, when you lean close to her, close enough that if you turned your head you could kiss that blushing cheek.

You wonder why you don't. Why you hold back. It doesn't make sense. The admiration you so missed is there in Georgiana's eyes. She would do anything for you.

So why don't you make love to her?

You could. Ever so easily you could. It isn't her youth that holds you back. You were as young as she when the cool and elegant Miss Jennings (then the age you are now and so lately engaged to a garrulous Devonshire knight) taught you first how to kiss and second how to make even the most prim and proper miss howl like a cat in heat. It would be so easy.

Except. Except Georgiana isn't yours any more than Jane was. She, too, is for Charles. You've talked it over with Darcy. It's a very good match. She has money, a good name, and a kind heart. He has even more money, a name that will be better for her wearing it, and an even kinder heart. And Georgiana, at least, lacks useless younger sisters for Charles to someday provide for.

And you are not in love with Georgiana nor lover to. That is the most important reason why. You could be. Oh, you could be. But you will not allow yourself to cuckold Charles nor be cuckolded by him.

(You will not, you cannot let that future you glimpsed at the Netherfield Ball come true. For Charles' sake, for the sake of your sanity, you cannot let him marry the woman you love, whoever she may be. You cannot let yourself love the woman he will marry, no matter how easy or tempting.)

There are other woman in London. Perhaps you will find someone else.

You meet Miss Elliot with her father at a private ball on Twelfth Night. She is the second-most beautiful woman you have met in your life—if you'd met her a year ago she would have been the most beautiful. She is elegant, superior, and intends to marry no lesser being than a baronet. She eyes you with frank appreciation and it is a balm to your weary soul.

You kiss her as the clock strikes one, hidden under the stair on what promises to be a beautiful Epiphany morning.

So of course Jane Bennet follows you to London.

No, not you. Charles. It's Charles she is here to see, not you. She cares nothing for you. She never did. She only wants your brother. You will never get to brush her hair, caress her cheek, or softly kiss her tears away. All that is for him. Not you. Never you.

It isn't fair. You were starting to recover from her. Between Georgiana's admiration and Miss Elliot's kisses you were starting to feel like a person again. But Miss Elliot and her father are gone, returned to their ancestral seat in Somerset and Jane, Jane Bennet is in London.

Louisa insists on allowing Jane a short visit in return for her friendship in Hertfordshire. You invite her over when Charles is gone and you know within minutes that this was a terrible idea. You make the return call at that wretched tradesman uncle's home as short as possible and when you leave you know you will not be back.

Her eyes will never light up for you. If you cannot see yourself reflected in her eyes, then you don't want to see them at all.

Winter turns into spring turns into summer. Charles is nearly himself again. You've stopped thinking so often about Jane Bennet: perhaps once a day and never very long. It helps that you have Georgiana. When she turns her eyes to you in worship it makes you forget about the eyes that saw only your brother.

She invites you to Pemberley. You're overjoyed, until you get there and see Eliza Bennet.

You wonder if Darcy has proposed yet. If he hasn't, it's only a matter of time. And of course, they will want Charles and Jane to stand for them at their wedding and all your hard work will come undone.

And Georgiana likes Miss Eliza, of all the wretched things. You thought you might at least commiserate with her, but she seems to think that Darcy's regard for Miss Eliza is proof that the little chit is worth admiring, as if it weren't only a matter of fine eyes and whatever else of her dubious charms that ensnared him.

Miss Eliza leaves. It doesn't cheer you at all, for Darcy soon follows.

Georgiana does what she can to distract you for your melancholy, but there's only so much she can do. It's not her fault that her brother is a fool and not the man you thought he was. It's not her fault that your brother was in love with a woman you cannot forget.

It does not help that no matter how sweet and dear she is, how womanly she looks, Georgiana is still only a young girl, just a year out of school. She knows nothing of heartbreak.

Charles asks Jane to marry him before the end of September and of course she accepts him. Reading his letter puts you in a particularly low mood and you wonder why you haven't read of Darcy's proposal to that other Bennet daughter, unless they were trying to keep it a secret.

A secret engagement. That's the sort of cunning and sneak that Eliza Bennet would enjoy, isn't it?

You can't quite say that you are proud of the letter you wrote Darcy's aunt, but writing it did make you feel better.

You need something to make you feel better. Jane Bennet will be your sister before Christmas.

(The night before you left Pemberley, Georgiana tried to kiss you. Sometimes you think you ought to have let her.)

Miss Elliot and her father are in London again. You invite her for tea one afternoon. It is altogether too easy to persuade her to stay the night.

Her Christian name is Elizabeth. Of course it is.

You wait until Miss Elliot is asleep before you allow yourself to weep.

The day before the wedding finds you in tears once more. Jane finds you as well, hiding beneath the stair. "Oh, Miss Bingley," she murmurs, taking your hand and patting it.

"Caroline," you whisper. "Please."

"Caroline," she says and the way she says your name, soft and sad, only makes you cry harder. She hands you her handkerchief.

"I don't think you and Mr Darcy would have been very happy together," she says quietly.

You shake your head. This isn't about Darcy. Well, not much. You try to tell her that, but it all comes out soggy and garbled. You doubt she can understand you.

For the longest time, neither of you says a word. Jane makes these soft, soothing noises and strokes your hair. A year ago you dreamed of her touching your hair like this and now that she has you're too miserable to properly appreciate it.

"Have you ever wished you were a man?"

The words tumble out unbidden. You feel your cheeks heat up. How could you have said something like that? She'll think you mad or worse.

"Yes," Jane says softly. "Of course I have. We'd have never had to worry about the entail and there were other things, too, it might have made easier."

"Oh," you say.

"I never expected to love Charles."

"Sometimes," you whisper, "I hate Charles."

"He loves you."

"I know," you say. "That only makes it worse."

"Mmm," she says and squeezes your hand.

"I wish this last year never happened."

She's quiet again after you say that. You start to worry you've hurt her again. You don't know how not to hurt her anymore.

"When we first met," she says finally, "I admired you so very much. Someday, I hope, I would like to be able to admire you again." She kisses your forehead, then. You look up at her in shock.

Charles was right. She is an angel.

Henry Crawford gazed at the much-creased and battered letter, the superscription written in his sister's modish, looping letters, blurred in places from an unknown storm in an unknown location, the ink already turned brown. From that he knew that the letter had been sent from the Stornaways' London house even if it hadn't been franked; their chief footman made the worst ink in the city. But the women used it by the quart.

He tossed the letter away unopened, misliking the rush of old sentiments that the sight of Mary's hand brought. The letter had been probably been two years in transit, chasing him from Everingham to London, thence to Italy, and somehow finding him here in Gibraltar. Or maybe all letters written to purposeless, roaming Englishmen fetched up here.

There were five more from Mary, and two from his bailiff, which he opened and perused, then thrust in his pocket. The last was written in an uneven, blocky fist, from Thos. Bertram, Mansfield Park, Northampton.

Crawford was aware that nothing he would read inside the letter would improve his spirits, but the need to know was greater; as he slid his penknife under the seal, he reflected with self-mockery that this was as close as he would ever come to a penitential act.

Dear Crawford, the letter began. You were good enough to write to me when I was ill, and while things did not fall out as well as everyone might have wished, I did want to thank you for that attention.

So far, so good. Henry Crawford had been playing a part when he wrote those letters inquiring after Tom Bertram's health; every word was meant to be read to Fanny Price, to exhibit his proper concern. His last letter to Tom was penned the morning he was to attend Mrs. Fraser's party; he looked away at the fire, remembering his intention to keep the letter open, providing him with a conversational gambit. He'd planned his little speech to Maria Rushworth, offering to convey any message she might wish to send to her brother, while knowing full well that it was an act of hypocrisy, but was not hypocrisy the essence of polite society? One pretends a delicacy that no one actually possesses.

Almost no one.


. . . I write to you from a house nearly empty. What a difference a year or two can bring! Once I went away to the races, leaving you all here to be happy. Now I have given over such frivolities, but my reward is to find no one here save my father and mother, and my cousin Susan Price.

So where was Maria Rushworth gone? That night at the Frasers' party, she'd paid no heed to Henry's prepared speech about her brother Tom. How angry she'd been! Crawford gazed into the flames. How well he'd thought anger became her that evening, with diamonds glittering around her neck and in her hair, the shimmer of her silken gown over her high, outraged bosom. Anger had made her interesting.

He ran his eyes down the rest of Tom's letter, not finding any of the names he had hoped, and feared, to see. Tom had begun a course of study—he met with his father every morning to learn the business of managing of estates—Crawford would comprehend, having been master of Everingham ever so long . . .

In short, Tom meant to be good. But he was bored. And he wrote a boring letter.

Crawford crushed the heavy paper in his fist, ready to throw it in the fire. A clamor at the door stayed his hand. He welcomed the diversion, as a hubbub of English voices entered the common room of the dismal inn he'd perforce been driven to.

"You'll pay for that, you b-blaggur-r-rd . . . " The slurred voice belonged to a furious youth who, from the spectacle of the loose, awkward swing of his fists, was drunk, though the hour was scarcely past midday. He was the center of a group of sailors on liberty; the accepts of Wapping were louder than the thin, bitter rain hissing outside.

"Come on, sport your canvas," a man taunted, to more laughter.

A familiar voice said, "Pho, pho. Baker, let him be."

The drunken youth bawled, "Where is he! Come fight, you rascal dog, you . . ."

"Sit, Musgrove. I'll get you a glass."

"Make it gin, you cur."

"Hold him, Baker. Trevelyan. But no more sport. He's in my charge, and I must answer for anything happening to him."

Crawford knew that voice.

"Send him to the frogs," someone called from the group. "He's no better at fighting us nor they are."

Another roar of laughter met this sally.

Crawford thrust his mail into the pocket of his greatcoat, as a tall, powerfully built young man in a shabby naval lieutenant's uniform elbowed his way among the customers of the inn toward the counter. "Pardon—si, si, escoosay—hey, mate, shift aside—hi, innkeep! A tankard of ale! Make that three."

Henry Crawford stood up, his heart beating; anywhere else in the world money, good address, and fine looks gained one a place in any company. He'd proved that so often it was a given . . . except to one steadfast heart.

Yet again, he had to know. "William?" he said, and a little louder, for the drunken boy was shouting insults to the high entertainment of the rest of the naval fellows, "William Price?"

The powerful young man at the counter swung around, surprise in his weather-beaten, open countenance. Then pleasure. Then he flushed, uncertain, but after a moment's hesitation he came forward, hand out. "Mr. Crawford. Sir."

"My dear fellow." Henry shook hands, flushing with gratitude at the welcome, though well aware of the irony.

"What brings you to Gibraltar, sir?" William asked. "Stay. My head is a-mazed, and not a drop have I drunk this day. Here, let me just discharge this . . ."

The innkeeper was waiting to be paid. William dug into his pocket and pulled out coinage at which he squinted, then he slapped down a shilling. "That will surely do." He took the tankards to his table, and put one in front of the drunken youth. "Drink it slowly, Musgrove." He set the others down. "Here. This for you two, if you'll bide with him a moment. I just discovered a gentleman acquainted with my family." He lifted his voice. "The rest of you, shove off."

The watchet-jacketed sailors moved out, still laughing, leaving two young lieutenants in worn, faded coats like that William Price wore.

Price returned to Crawford, who indicated the other chair. "Please. Join me."

William took the chair, and leaned forward. "I can hardly stay a moment. I've been charged with this fellow." A jerk of his square chin over his shoulder. Strange, how so manly a feature could yet recall the more delicate line of his sister's features. "He cast up his accounts at the top of the hill. At least it's raining, or I'd be afeared he'd die of a sunstroke by the time I get him aboard." His brow furrowed as he looked around. "What are you doing here, sir, if I might ask?"

"I was on Lord Somerset's yacht. We were driven into the harbor by a party of French pirates, and landed in Gibraltar yesterday," Crawford said. "Ahead of our time. We applied at the Governor's Mansion to discover what to do, and found mail waiting, but no beds, as they were full up with government fellows. So I asked direction to an English inn, and found myself here."

William glanced over his shoulder, then lowered his voice. "You don't want to stay in English inns. They're robbers all, and the victuals are either boiled to shreds or dried to ash."

Crawford laughed softly. "So I discovered. And through some absurd etiquette, they will not let my man into the kitchen to dress my meals."

"No, what you want is one of the French-owned places. Or Spanish. Though here they do offer English ale." He indicated his young charge, who was just finishing the tankard. "Only remedy when someone's jug-bitten. Where he finds gin, the devil knows, for the captain don't let it on board."

"How old is that boy?" Crawford asked, as the spot-faced midshipman began arguing incoherently with the red-haired lieutenant sitting with him.

William's brows lifted, reminding Crawford that, despite his younger age, Lieutenant Price had seen far more of the world, and a rougher world, than had Henry Crawford. "He's old in sin. Old in sin." Then William said diffidently, "I don't quite understand what happened—that is, I am conscious of how much I owe you, sir, for your—yes, I can see you do not want to be reminded, but hang it all, what I'm trying to say is, if you wish, I can take you by one ten times better, and for half the cost."

"I am your man. Lead on."

"Well, I'm under orders from the premier to bring young Musgrove back to the ship, as this was his first day of liberty, and not half a watch and he's run himself aground."

A brief fracas began at the other table, as the boy named Musgrove made a sudden start for the door, but the shorter lieutenant was ready for just that, and stuck out a scuffed but serviceably booted foot. The boy tripped over it, and was hauled up, spitting curses.

William Price rose. "I'd better go; my friends are giving up their own liberty to sit on young Jack-at-warts, and he's not even their shipmate. We lie just off the New Mole, if—no, I see you don't know your way about yet. But if you'll meet me at three, say, at the grog shop at the bottom of the hill below the Governor's Mansion, I can show you around."

***


My dear Henry. Why have you not answered my previous? I believe this is my fifth, but if it's true and you are gone from our shores, then this might be the first to reach you. If any of them do. How very vexing, not to know if all this effort and wit is thrown away.

Very well, I shall pretend we are sitting at Mansfield Parsonage, and you will soon go out Riding, and I will sit to my Harp. My sister is at work turning the yard into a garden, and as for my brother-in-law, who knows? We will see him at dinner. That is Worlds enough.

But when I open my eyes, I see Flora seated at her harp. At least Lord Stornaway is not here, which is a large Mercy. Why is it that the ugliest Men are the most exigeant? You are neither ugly nor exigeant, so you must not be the person to ask. There! A compliment! Does that not require you to write me in return?

I do not know what is more irritating to the nerves, their pretence at grief that I lost a possible husband—or their relief that I am not thrown away in some country parsonage . . .

There was only one remaining letter from Mary. Henry had scanned down the previous ones, finding what he had expected to find, a long litany of questions he would not answer, and bon mots that scarcely disguised Mary's ire at being left so suddenly, and without any communication.

Henry wanted to throw the letters into the fire, but there was none in this super-heated space. And he knew that such an action would not render them unwritten, the words unsaid—his actions undone. What was Fanny Price about, with her missish behavior? Was there a Madame d'Arblay about to be impressed, and to make of her a tiresome example of a saintly virgin for the edification of future young flirts?

That was why he could not answer Mary: she was angry at the wrong person. He folded the letters—only one more to read, it could wait—and sat back in his uncomfortable chair made of a half-barrel, before a table cut from another barrel. Bottles hung overhead in netting, either for sale or decoration; the drink served was vile, tasting of lead, but Crawford was content to be out of the sun, which had come out by then, striking shards of blinding light off the steaming puddles. The air of the city pressed down in a miasmic combination, though apparently unnoticed by the swarms of red-coated soldiers and the sailors and officers in varying shades of blue as they drank, swore, roared and walked about, hallooing at one another and chivvying the local women as soon as they spotted one.

The large young lieutenant ducked through the low door, tucking his chapeau-bras under his arm. Price greeted Henry in a cheery masthead-in-a-thunderstorm boom. "Here I find you, Mr. Crawford. I trust I did not keep you long?"

The admiral, in spite of his liberality about the rules of matrimony, had considered unpunctuality an unforgivable sin. The church towers began ringing three before Crawford could answer.

William just smiled, waiting for the wild clamor to echo down the narrow streets and fade away to sea, then he said, "I've been told there's scarcely a bed to be had, for the troop ships are come in. They say the lobsters are gathering to chase Boney out of Spain with Wellesley at their head."

Henry Crawford knew that much, though little more; Lord Somerset had, under the guise of his yachting party, been the bearer of papers between Government officials.

"So if it's just you, my captain has issued an invitation. We're standing off toward Minorca on the turn of the tide, if you'd like to see a little more of the Med. We've a couple of other gentlemen caught similarly."

"What about my man?"

"Oh, we'll find a corner for him. The captain don't mind gentlemen, see, or their servants. He makes it a rule never to take ladies on board."

"Ah. Thank you. I find myself at—in short, I am glad to accept. Shall I meet you, or—" Henry paused, unsure how to proceed.

William gave a deep chuckle. "Bless you, I'm to come along and see to your dunnage. I'll make certain these Spanish rascals don't rob you blind. My brother Sam will meet us at the Mole in an hour."

An hour and a half later Crawford sat in the sternsheets of a gig as a another young Price, sturdier even than William, stepped the single mast and sent them bumping over the choppy waters on a rising wind toward a handsome frigate of older build. William had indeed taken charge; Crawford knew his intent was kindness—William still regarded him in the light of a benefactor for making it possible to gain his promotion—but the unconscious ease with which he'd hoisted Crawford's trunk to his shoulder, his assurance in navigating the bewildering streets, rendered Crawford feeling . . . unsettled. As useful as the expensive, dashing curly-brimmed beaver sitting on his head, which had proved inadequate against either rain or Mediterranean sun.

"She's the Laconia," William said, as the boat threaded between two great ships-of-the-line. Crawford looked up those towering tumblehomes, the open gun ports affording a glimpse into the life of the many decks. But the Price brothers heeded them not: their attention was on a graceful frigate floating at anchor beyond. "Thirty-two guns. She's not at her best. We had a brush with those gunboats that I think your party might have seen."

"Fourteen shot between water and deck, sir," young Sam Price put in, his ready, fearless smile a twin to his brother's.

Men crawled up in the rigging, and hung over the hull hammering and painting; great booms lifted spars this way and that on the frigate.

The sailors at the oars remained silent as the Price brothers talked about how stout their ship was during this storm or that "dust-up," pride clear in their voices.

When they reached the frigate, Crawford began to regret the impulse to accept Price's invitation. The boat seemed destined to smash against the outward curving hull, and his servant, Bryce, had gone from pale to green. An exchange of utterly incomprehensible shouts between deck and boat soon procured a rope affair extended down from a yard arm; William said, "Bide here, sir, and we'll boom you up. Watch your hat, and keep your hands in—your man would never get the pitch out of those gloves, not ever so."

Crawford found himself lifted aboard by a pair of grizzled man-of-war's men—"There ye be, sir, that's the dandy! Now step aft, if you please, sir" —followed by his servant and his trunk.

The deck was crowded with hen coops, sheep wandering about, goats, and a cow; what seemed to be several hundred men moved about, many hallooing at the tops of their voices as they clambered up and down, or hauled ropes, or carried things about.

William Price led Crawford aft along the gangway, every so often stopping to let a work party carry a spar this way or an enormous worm of folded sailcloth that way.

They stepped onto the quarterdeck, and when Price saluted, Crawford lifted his hat. Price presented him to the captain, who (Crawford was relieved to see) looked very much the gentleman. The captain was obviously extremely busy, so Crawford kept his answers as short as politeness permitted, and then a small man with a round, pleasant face stepped forward.

"And here is Mr. Benwick, sir, our first lieutenant."

"Welcome, Mr. Crawford," this Benwick said. "We've settled it that you shall have my quarters, and I will swing a hammock in the cabin, as Captain Wentworth and I have shared digs on many a ship since we were middies aboard the old Reso."

Crawford scarcely had time to thank him before Benwick excused himself and bounded forward, shouting at someone high in the complication of ropes and sails overhead.

William led Crawford to a hatch with a ladder leading down into an even narrower, darker passage that smelled of mildewed wood, and the exhalations of hundreds of men. Price stopped by a canvas door. "Here you go, sir. Just get settled in—the mail packet was by while we were on shore, and so things are all ahoo, as you can see. But we'll be dining with the captain late, on account of everything, which will be at double-dog." Seeing Crawford's confusion, he added, "I'll send a squeaker to warn you. If you will pardon me?"

He was gone, leaving Crawford to look around the minute space allotted to the second in command aboard a frigate. His experience on the yacht had not prepared him for any of this: the time had been standard count by clock, the cabins commodious. The servants many.

The quarters belonging to the first lieutenant would not have suited a coal-heaver, Crawford thought as he stood in the narrow access, wondering where Bryce could possibly fit his trunk. But it was scrupulously clean, and as he eyed the space more closely by the light of the swinging lamp, had to admit that it was cunningly fit together—here a shaving bowl could be set, then the same space turned to use for other purposes. The lieutenant slept in a hammock; just above it, in the slanting bulkhead, someone had fastened a kind of book shelf, which kept two small rows of tight-packed books from falling out.

There was nowhere to sit, so perforce he must stretch out in the hammock, which was difficult to climb into. But once he managed, the comfort was immediately apparent, if one overlooked the constant motion.

What else to do? He had little taste for shoving his way back into the madness of the ship readying itself for sail, or the busy wardroom full of off-duty men eagerly reading mail.

Mail. Crawford pulled from his pocket the last letter from his sister, broke the seal, and held it to the lamp, which seemed inclined to swing in a different direction than the hammock. Henry, I believe this will be my Last until I hear from you. Do I hear Relief, or Dismay? Let me inform you that I have seen her—Maria Rushworth that was; the Bill of Divorcement is already in Parliament. She came to me here at Lady Stornaway's, but is gone away again, into Shropshire. She is to live with her aunt Norris: if that is not deemed Punishment enough, what is?

I say nothing of the Price she has paid for her—other than to remind you that more than two have paid it. But grief, the poets claim, can make unexpected bedfellows. Short of anyone else choosing to visit her in her Seclusion, I believe I will venture there anon. I have no fears of the Countryside. I have learnt what it can do.

Your loving sister, Mary.

"Sir?" A squeak-voiced boy scratched at the bulkhead outside the canvas curtain. "Sir, I'm to tell you that dinner with the captain is in forty-five minutes, and your man will be here with hot water anon."

Crawford fought his way out of the hammock, cursing under his breath. His head seemed to swing in the opposite direction of the ship; he poked his nose out, about to ask the boy if morning or evening dress was expected, but there was no boy.

However, Bryce appeared moments later, with evening dress laid over his arm. Crawford was relieved to discover that his trunk was "struck" down in the hold, for there was little room to turn around with two in this tiny space. He was ready within the allotted time, and joined the men crowded in the passage just outside the cabin.

When the ship's bell rang, an aproned sailor emerged, earrings swinging against his raw-scraped jaw, his long, greased tail of hair marking him as a man-of-war's man his entire life. As Crawford followed Benwick in, he noticed that the serving sailor stumped on a wooden peg.

The guests crowded in around the table, and sailors wearing their normal togs but white gloves did the serving, surprisingly deft. Crawford was placed between Sam Price, who as a lowly midshipman was quite silent, and Lt. Benwick; across the table William Price sat between the two other guests, a merchant from London who was known to the ship's surgeon, at the end of the table, and an older, saturnine man introduced as Sir Charles Peasekin.

As always, Crawford waited for the principal man at table—in a naval ship that would be the captain, elsewhere the man of highest rank—to establish the tone. Lord Somerset and his companions had moved in tonnish circles, and the favorite topic had been on-dits, the more salacious the better. This captain did not talk bawdy, nor did he respond except with a single polite laugh when Sir Charles ventured a warm sally about the Laconia being the conduit to a grateful Persephone. Wentworth turned the subject to the success of a cruise off the Greek Isles, and said congenially, "Glass of wine with you, sir?"

Sir Charles lifted his glass—the claret went round the table—the talk turned to Laconia's successes during the past year—wind—fog—past errors in fog—the fog of rumor—possible war with the new American republic, but no one professed to believe it.

"What do they have, two capital ships? Three? Be a mighty short war, even for the Boston beans," the merchant declared to much laughter.

"With everyone else at war, they needs must follow the fashion," Sir Charles said, and was saluted with another toast. "But they will be hard put to find the successes of present company." And that inspired yet a further hoist of glasses. "Come, Captain Wentworth, let us have the story of your battle with the French frigate who'd been marauding 'gainst our Indiamen."

Crawford was aware of mental turmoil. If the naval men had bragged, he could have despised them. But they only told stories on themselves, mirthful at near misses. Their careless bravery, like William Price's careless strength, brought back with full force the sense of personal futility that he'd sustained when he first met William, then a scrubby midshipman longing for his step.

During those days at Mansfield he had mounted William on one of his hunters, to genuine gratitude, but that pleasure had dimmed to inconsequence when, night after night, William enthralled the company with his stories about parts of the world Crawford could scarcely locate on a map. William Price had trod on every one of the great continents, and as a boy. But more than that, he faced danger and deprivation—all to a grand and glorious purpose in the King's service.

The Laconia was fighting to stave off French incursions as the allies prepared to encircle Boney from all sides. What could Henry Crawford lay claim to in achievement? Debauching another man's wife, and losing the one woman he had ever loved. Nor were these two actions related to the same woman, so he had not even the excuse of devotion.

The general talk altered to specific, each man explaining how he'd been caught at The Rock. When attention came to him, he tried to turn off interest with the slightest reference to Lord Somerset—knowing full well what that might imply.

Sir Charles said, "Oho! Connected with government, are ye, no, no, don't answer that. I know what's o'clock." He laid his finger beside his nose in the ancient schoolboy signal for tace, and everyone else exchanged intelligent glances: of course he was on a secret mission.

Crawford shrugged, despising himself for the deliberate misdirection as Benwick said with hearty honesty, "Some may cavil at the civilians and their easy life, but I don't. Boney is no respecter of persons—or rank, in spite of his jumped up princes and archdukes."

"We heard about Lord Chetwynd at the Temple, and how the damned frogs served him out," the surgeon said to Crawford. "It's one thing to be shot as a spy. We all take a similar risk whenever we go into action."

"Hear him, hear him!"

"But to be torn apart by those devils in some torture chamber, well, that's monstrous. Just monstrous." And, raising his glass, "Death and damnation to the French, bumpers up and no heeltaps!"

"Hear him, hear him!" the others shouted, as a new bottle passed from hand to hand.

Crawford drank, accepting tribute for a danger he had never faced, and a vocation he did not pursue. Even William seemed to accept the implication that Henry was covertly in the diplomatic service, if not an outright spy—he might believe it, knowing Henry's connection with his uncle high in the admiralty—and Fanny's brother seemed as little prone to social misdirection as had been his sister.

Sam Price finished his glass, but almost dropped it as the ship gave a skittish lurch. Crawford righted the glass for Sam, who could only have been fourteen or fifteen. He realized the boy was sinking under the combined weight of a substantial meal and far too many glasses of wine.

Almost at the same moment Wentworth raised his gaze briefly to the pig-tailed steward, and Sam's wineglass, when next filled, was pink with four parts water to one part wine.

The boy's eyelids were still drifting down; Crawford recalled William's stories of midshipmen beginning their days at four in the morning, but at a naval dinner no one left until the captain had offered the toast to the king.

So Crawford said, "I hear the packet arrived. Did you receive mail, Mr. Price?"

Sam's eyelids fluttered up, and he made a struggle for wakefulness. "Yes, sir," he said thickly. And, in a lower mutter, "Devilish lot of 'em."

The surgeon adjacent laughed. "Got another quire, eh, Mr. Price?"

"It's m'sisters," Samuel said, slightly slurring, and very despondent. "They would scribble a lot of letters." After a moment, he added, "M'brother gets even more." And in a much lower voice, "But the captain don't nobble him into writing back of a Sunday, when a fellow would as soon catch a bit of rest."

"That's females all over," the merchant said. "Gibble-gabble until a man can't think, and if it's not in the dining room, it's in the bedchamber. And if he goes away, it's waiting for him writ-out, crossed and recrossed, at the letter office, and he has to pay for the privilege of receiving it. I assure you, I have five men under me, but I go to Persia to see to my rugs as often as ever I can."

"Here's to ladies and their letters," Benwick declared, raising his glass. "Long may they live and long may their letters to their dear ones be."

Crawford observed the captain drinking, as was proper, but he neither spoke nor smiled.

***

As the next few days passed, the idea of Fanny Price's letters on board the same ship took hold of Henry Crawford. Partly there was the desire to touch something she had touched, to see how she shaped her letters, to hear her voice again in reading the words she wrote. He wanted to sniff the paper in the hope of tracing some last lingering scent that would identify her.

But short of rifling through the effects of either brother, a thing he scorned to do, there was no getting at the least intelligence. Sam—Mr. Price to sailors three times his age—was busy every time Crawford saw him. Or he was down in the midshipmen's berth which Crawford walked by just once, as he made his way around the ship. He discovered a particularly noisome space full of boys, and heard the hectoring shout of that drunken Musgrove bullying someone smaller. He paused, uncertain whether or not he should interfere, but then another, older voice shouted, "Stop your gob, Diccon Musgrove, or I'll stop it for you! Just you leave him be."

William Price was just as busy; the second lieutenant on board a frigate generally served the worst watches. But every time Crawford saw William the young man would pause for a friendly greeting—while still keeping a weather-eye for the sailors in his charge, and the sky, and the wind. Once or twice Crawford found William on the quarterdeck, and ventured into conversation, but opportunities to get near "Fanny Bertram" or "Mrs. Bertram" did not occur. Perhaps the bluff William was endeavoring to exercise delicacy.

Midway through the third night Crawford woke when one of the young midshipman ran down the companionway, shrilling, "Turn up! All hands on deck!"

"What's toward?" someone asked the boy, as Crawford poked his head out.

"Strange sail sighted, nor'nor'east." The boy paused at the ladder.

"Betwixt us and Minorca," Benwick said, appearing from somewhere, his eyes wide and glittering in the flickering light of a candle someone held. "By God I'd love another prize."

William's voice came from somewhere else as Crawford withdrew and began to pull on his clothes. "You've already enough to buy Miss Harville a pony."

"She shall have a coach-and-four, then," Benwick shouted down the ladder, and then vanished onto the weather deck.

Crawford finished dressing more slowly, recalling something someone had said about staying below if they were to see action. It was the safest place, and it was out of the way.

But that was before the bangs and thuds of noise rumbled through the ship: the carpenter and his crew coming along to dismantle the flimsy walls, freeing up the space for the guns spaced along the deck. Crawford discovered that his space was indeed capacious compared to others, who had to share space with the enormous canon.

William appeared at his shoulder. "We're clearing for action, Mr. Crawford," he said. "You might wish to go below to the orlop, or you can stay on deck, but if we come to action, things might get warmish."

Crawford's heartbeat thundered in his ears. He remembered that clearing for action was a precautionary measure. Many were the mirthful tales about unnecessary clearings for what turned out to be a sleepy fisher, or once, their own fleet, sailing the wrong way in a fog. Much jollity had accompanied the description of the two frigates treble-shotted and ready to blow one another out of the sea, as they drifted close enough to stare inside one another's gun ports.

At any rate, he hated the notion of hiding below in the stinking bowels of the ship, tumbled in with the ship's animals, and not knowing what was going forward.

"I should like to see an action," Crawford said, keeping his voice even. "If I am not in the way."

William's approval was instant. "I thought you might say that. You may join us on the weather deck; they are serving out hot grog just now. The captain likes the men to be well fed and ready."

Crawford followed William to the deck, to find a brisk wind and choppy seas. From the motions and words of the mariners, he discovered that the wind favored the coming French, but that the Laconia, having joined the night before with another fleet, was not alone.

"Well, gentlemen," Captain Wentworth said as he emerged from the cabin, where the carpenter's mates were freeing the stern chasers. "I will not say that this is the worst wind we've ever met with, but we've had better."

"One comfort, if you please, sir," Benwick offered. "The crapauds won't like this cross-sea any more than we do."

"Quite true." Wentworth studied sky, sea, and the slanting war ships approaching, his expression akin to Crawfords friends before a fox hunt. "With luck they'll have to close the lower gun ports on that fifty. That'll pull her teeth some, eh?"

Crawford accepted the hot drink pressed into his hand, and though his throat had gone dry, tried a sip. The sudden jolting of the deck bumped the enameled cup against his top tooth, and he lowered the cup and peered across at the foremost French ship. Teeth. Even if its lower gun ports could not be in use, it had two more rows of guns, hardly a toothless broadside.

No one seemed worried, even when a deep boom was followed by a flash of light from the foremost Frenchman. A few seconds later puckers and splashes rose from the water not far from the stern.

"We will not waste ammunition so profligately," Wentworth said, peering through his glass. "We don't have a coast conveniently to hand."

A sharp smell forced its way to Crawford's notice. He turned. The smell came from tubs of slow match smoldering beside each gun; the men stood ready, tompions gripped, gun crews with tools. Abaft the foremast a couple of powder monkeys capered about, pushing one another.

"Mr. Price commands the forward guns, if you would like to watch their work up close," Captain Wentworth said to Crawford.

Watch cannon up close? Why would anyone do that? But Henry Crawford had always fitted himself to the company he found himself in, and so he tipped his hat to the captain and moved forward, taking care to keep well back of the cannon and their crews.

He reached William, and said, "Where is your brother? Are the boys down in the cockpit?"

William's face crinkled in a smile. "Sam is in command of the larboard guns on the gun deck." He pointed at his feet.

Henry said, "I see." Boys—in command of men shooting cannon. It made as much sense as anything here did, he thought savagely, wishing he had stayed in Spain. Stayed in Italy. Stayed in England; stayed away from Mrs. Fraser's party.

"Beat to quarters," Captain Wentworth ordered from the quarterdeck, and the Marines' drummer began the steady tattoo that increased tension a thousandfold.

Now you can marry me. He could see Maria so clearly, lying tousled in the bed next to him, fair hair spread on the pillow. Her face flushed with triumph.

The crump and roar of the French guns jolted him to the present. Eerie whistles propelled great black blurs in arcs above and around, and once a large hiss; crack! Something in the rigging overhead smashed, followed by a hoarse cry. Great splats of blood dropped on the deck, followed by a rain of splinters; William shoved Crawford to one side, and a cable as thick as a man's leg slithered to the deck with a roar almost as loud as the distant cannon.

He stared at the rope, his mind wheeling back to that day. But you are already married!

Rushworth will petition for a bill of divorcement. And you can't marry Fanny Price now, she had retorted.

Of course I can. You go home, I go home, no one is the wiser, certainly not the Count with his two and forty speeches. That is how the game is played, Mrs. Rushworth.

But I'm not going home, until you promise to marry me. Good little Fanny would faint rather than have you now. Even if they let her, and good little Fanny always does what she's told, the little minx. Hypocrite!

"Fire!" the captain shouted, and William echoed, "Fire!"

The distant roar was nothing to the mind-shattering noise of cannon hurling hot iron across the sea from not ten paces away. The huge hulking guns leaped back, gouting steam and smoke; the men lunged forward to service the gun and load it again, as somewhere, a boy shrieked to another boy, their voices like the harsh cry of gulls.

You and I are the hypocrites, he'd said. Oh, he would give anything to be back in that Richmond inn, facing her across the bed, though at the time he longed to be away from her. As always, anticipation had proved far better than the fact. We say what's right but we make a mockery of it, which is why I will never marry you. Come, let's kiss and part friends. What is life for but to make merry while we can?

You proposed to Fanny Price! Was there ever any greater hypocritical act?

So you meant that marriage vow to Rushworth? he'd retorted. For how long? A month? A day? An hour?

"Fire!"

More screeching balls, and this time the ship jolted as iron hit the hull, smashed the quarter-gallery from the stern, struck in the tops again, causing more cries, and a rain of objects.



Don't dare to fling that marriage in my face! What was I supposed to do, sit at home until I am thirty, waiting for you? Why didn't you ask me the day after my father came home from Antigua? I was waiting for you. You knew I was waiting for you!

A ball smashed into the farthermost gun, causing it to explode; blood and flesh splintered, mercifully vanishing in a gout of smoke. Crawford shut his eyes against the smoke clearing. He could not even hear his frantic heart; he could only stand, willing himself to invisibility.

Because marriage with you would have been just like my uncle's marriage with my aunt. I spared us both that.

But Fanny Price! How I hate you for that! She shan't have you . . .

" . . . and four wounded."

"Where is Musgrove?"

"Says he's wounded. I can't see anything wrong with him, but he insists he can't see out of his eyes."

" . . . then we'll have to . . ."

"Fire!"

Another roar, followed by crashing below and to the side, and above.

Anger vanished, cauterized by the terror all around Henry; he struggled to recall Fanny, but his mind refused to impose her gentle face over the stink and death and blood. Instead it flung him right back to Maria Rushworth pacing around that Richmond bedchamber like a caged bird, wringing her hands in fury as she begged and pleaded and argued with him to marry her—and all for the wrong reasons.

How could he resent her? Mary was wrong; he was not angry with Maria, not any more. Hypocrite he certainly was, especially in what was mirthfully termed polite company, but he was not self-righteous enough to blame Maria for being so like him, when that had been part of her attraction. He just did not want to live with her.

"Reload—bear a hand there, bear a . . ."

Maria was no worse than anyone else in their circle, and better than many. She had a right to happiness, as did they all, because life was so short, made shorter by this madness of men and boys using all their brains and skill to operate these sea-conquering machines in order to murder other men and boys. And for what? When the smoke cleared, the sea would still belong to itself.

"Fire!"

Another howling screech, and this time the multiple shocks of arriving French cannon balls rocked the ship so violently that Crawford was thrown forward, striking his head. Splinters of red light flashed across his vision, stupefying him; his head rang like a bell.

When the keening subsided, he made out the shape of a face bent over him. Someone was talking. He squinted, trying to bring face into focus—William Price, soot-covered—patiently barking words over and over.

" . . . take hurt? Is aught amiss with your bones? Your head?"

"No." Crawford croaked, tried to swallow, but his throat burned. "Fine."

"Look, a chance ball sent a splinter into one of my powder boys, and the other was knocked through the hatch and broke his leg. Could I trouble you to lend a hand?"

Crawford struggled to sit. The pain in his head was blinding, but the idea of moving—of having something to do so he did not have to think—came as relief. "Yes. Water?"

"Catch a drink from the scupper on your way. Just go below—with this—bring up powder. As fast as ever you can."

Crawford took the reeking, sulfurous sack, and swayed to his feet. He stumbled to the hatch, spied one of the powder boys, and followed him to the powder room below, as the ship shook twice again, forcing them against a bulkhead. Then the guns on both decks roared in a long, rippling broadside.

All the world and time narrowed to the rush of blood through his head, the roughness of powder in his hands, the slewing of the ship as he either climbed up the ladders or down the ladders, the mouths open around the firing guns, the slipping of blood on the deck.

Just once, in a curious lull, the words " . . . give chase!" carried to his ears: sound but little sense, setting up a train of connected memories and thoughts. Chase—fox chase—the sweet verdure around Mansfield—Everingham—William Price galloping after Edmund Bertram, whose hat had fallen, leaving him bare-headed, hair lifting in the wind. Edmund—Fanny—what is her expression when Edmund wakes, and sees her on the next pillow?

Powder . . . roar. Until the world ends—

The flash and red pain took him utterly by surprise. Then nothing.

***

" . . . take off the leg?"

"No, it looks clean. Bleeding freely. Let's section it here—hold his arms, I think he's rousing."

A closer voice, lips warm against his ear: "Come, hold tight. That's the dandy."

The red pain blossomed into white lightning, and then nothing again.

He roused when someone lifted his head and pressed a cup to his lips. "Come now, drink it up."

The cup contained the vile concoction the sailors called grog, which seemed to be rum mixed with stale, long-casked water. It was also, apparently, a wholesale medicament: he forced down some sips, then came an even more vile concoction.

"It's soup. For convalescents."

It tasted like muck made of sawdust and ship's biscuit. But he felt marginally better when at last they let him lay his aching head down again. Somewhere to the left a man moaned on every outward breath. The sound made Crawford anxious, then sad, and finally bitter.

When he woke again, a rough but efficient hand was straightening his clothing. Crawford grimaced against his own stink, which was a disgusting and unexplainable mixture of stale sweat and brandy; his flesh was one itch, except for the continual throb in his leg, echoing the smaller one in his head.

"Waking now, guv'nor?" It was the surgeon's mate, an old sailor with only one arm. "Here. Your man is come with some tea. Mr. Price, he sent it down special. The capting is a-comin' of to visit."

The tea was the most flavorful brew he had ever tasted, filling his tongue to the outsides of it, where it tingled refreshingly. Warmth spread downward through his veins. "Oh thank you, Bryce," he gasped. And after another revivifying cup, "Is there a chance of a clean shirt?"

"No, we don't want to be movin' ye about," the mate said. "Yer man here can tell Mr. Price the tea went down right well. He keeps asking after you, sir. As does Young Price, the middie."

Crawford shut his eyes, then woke again when several hands began to shift him. His leg, which had quieted to a dull red ember of pain, flared into roaring flames again, as hands moved him, then poured pungent liquid over the wound; he had a vague recollection that this had happened before, as the smell of brandy made him anxious.

The pain had quieted when Captain himself appeared, his eyes marked with exhaustion, but a smile.

"Well, then, Mr. Crawford, how do you do?"

"Well enough," Henry said. "I take it we prevailed?"

"Mr. Price tells me you are a man of means, so the news that your share of the prize might net you two hundred pounds or so will probably not cause general celebration. But you'll have a fine story to tell at home. The French are driven off; a fifty gun man-of-war surrendered to us just before the first watch. It was a fairly long engagement as those go, with a chase in between, but our losses were relatively light: four died, and nearly thirty carry wounds from superficial to severe. You, sir, are in the latter category. You hit your head in falling, but we are assured it was only a glancing blow. You took a long splinter in the thigh, and several smaller ones lower in your limb. The surgeon was concerned about a major blood vessel, but he feels the wound is healing cleanly. He is a very experienced gentleman; he's been with me these six years, and you may repose complete trust in him."

"Thank you. He's brought me thus far . . . and has my gratitude. . . How fares the vessel?"

"We lost the foretopmast, two guns, my larboard quarter-gallery, and numerous gun ports were knocked into holes. The mizzen was wounded, and we've fished it for now. We should reach Port Mahon within three days if the wind holds."

Crawford suspected Wentworth had duties awaiting him, so he signed his thanks and closed his eyes, listening to Wentworth's quiet murmur as he made his way around the cabin to each man.

***

The wind died that night.

The air heated up until it became stultifying. Midmorning the next day, at the urgent request of the surgeon, the captain gave permission for the wounded who could be carried to be brought up to the weather deck, and set out under awnings rigged to shade them. Crawford lay in a pool of his own sweat, his leg an agony at the slightest movement.

Gradually he sank into fever; from the sounds, many around him were also feverish. His mind wandered; he heard the text of Mary's letters, only she was reading. No, she stood at the window at the admiral's, looking out at the garden, the light on her profile.

"Who would have thought that little dormouse Fanny Price would be playing the deepest game of all. Did she count upon marrying a future Sir Edmund?"

"That's ridiculous," Henry murmured, and louder, because Mary did not turn from the window. "That's foolish. Fanny did not know Thomas would become ill when she turned me down."

"Here, sir. Drink. It'll do you good."

Tea washed through Henry's dry mouth, fighting the strange lassitude, and reknitting his body to the present world. Including the pain. He opened his eyes, to discover William Price sitting near his head, using a bit of sailcloth tied to a pole as a fan to create a semblance of a breeze.

With the sense of his body came a measure of awareness. "Was I talking?" he asked, his voice barely above a whisper.

"Yes." William looked to one side, and then said, "About my sister."

Henry swallowed. "Is she happy?" And when William looked around again, "Is she happy, William?"

William Price turned back, his face somber. Unfamiliar that way. "Fanny would be happy anywhere, so long as she's properly loved."

"So . . . does Bertram love her?"

"I think so," William said, and then in a rush. "Though I don't think he knows her. That's why I wished . . ."

Henry made an effort and opened his eyes. William made a helpless gesture, and Henry understood it to mean that he wished that Henry had married her. He grimaced.

William said in haste, "Make no doubt, I have a great regard for Cousin Edmund. He's a capital fellow. But he was used to telling her what to think. He never asked her what she thought."

"No one did, in that house," Crawford said, too weak to be surprised at the turn this conversation was taking—one he never thought he would have. Maybe he was dreaming it. "I asked her. And asked her. What she was thinking. But she would never tell me."

William sighed, then said, "She wouldn't tell me neither, even when we were alone two days, before I sailed on the Thrush. I make no doubt she was turning things over in her mind. She was a thinker, even when we were small. I thought it a fine thing to get her away from the Bertrams' influence, so she might see clear. Maybe she always saw clear."

His implication was clear enough, and nothing new: if Crawford had for once exercised strength of mind and waited, he would have gained his dearest wish.

Leaving him with the hardest question of all: would anticipation of getting his dearest wish have been sufficient to inspire him to a lifetime of exercising strength of mind?

Another time he could be his own worst enemy, but now, it was good to just lie passively, listening to the soft plash of water against the hull. There was just enough breeze to keep the ship from rolling out its masts, but not enough to drive it.

"Would you like to hear something from her latest letter?" William offered.

"Yes." Yes, though it would pain him in the heart as much as this damned splinter had cut his limb.

With that strange, feverish clarity that poised his brain between memory and the present—as if he did not quite exist completely in either place—Henry remembered being so sure, so confident in his powers as he said to Fanny, It is not by equality of merit that you can be won. That is out of the question. It is he who sees and worships your merit the strongest, who loves you the most devotedly, that has the best right of a return.

He had never believed such a woman existed—such a person existed. If he discovered through her letters the evidence that in attaining happiness she had grown complacent, he would know that she, too, was made like the rest of humanity. Not calculating, or cruel, but . . . perhaps prosy. Smug, perched comfortably on the high moral ground with her clergyman husband. Sharing psalms over breakfast, and subjecting dinner guests to improving sermons.

Yet such was the conflict of human nature—of his nature—he knew that if she were not happy, it would hurt the worst of all.

"Here we go, then. 'Sir Thomas rides over every evening to discuss new plans for Mansfield Parsonage with your cousin Edmund. They scarcely agree on one plan before he thinks of a better, and like the queen in the story, he returns the next day with a new tale. We meet each as if it's the first, though we are agreed that whatever is settled on, there must always be a room for you. It gives Sir Thomas such pleasure to be planning nursery rooms, and a wine cellar, and a better library, but one day the workmen must actually begin . . .'"

William's deep, chesty burr of a voice did not quite mask the soft fall of Fanny's voice in Henry's mind. These were her words, and he could so easily see her smile, the mild expression of her eyes as she wrote them.

"'Aunt Bertram has given me rose clippings for the new garden. Such blooms we had at Thornton Lacey last spring! It comforts me to know that Mrs. Hodgekin, wife of the curate who takes our place there, will love them like I did. . .'"

The voice read on, sinking below the images of Fanny in the garden, stooped over the roses, Fanny walking down the avenue toward the Parsonage. Fanny sitting over her sewing, the reflection of the fire in her eyes.

Henry Crawford ceased to hear the words, as images pressed on his brain, driving him down into dreams of what had never been. Is this death? he wondered. He found he did not really care.

***

But when William came next, Henry was a little stronger. William brought an older letter, which he brandished, saying that he thought he might read more, having seen what pleasure the latest one gave Henry.

When William was done reading, Henry asked, "When you write to her. What do you tell her?"

William chuckled. "Not what you might be thinking. I might say we were in a scrape. She'll hear that anyway, if Sam writes to our brother Tom, bragging, you know, as boys will. I tell her the news from a distance, you might say. The glorious parts."

"Is there a glorious part?" Crawford asked, closing his eyes again. "I remembering hearing something. About that young fellow Musgrove. Something thought he was feigning injury?"

"We've yet to prove that. He's biding in quarters, as if recovering. The captain don't want to put him under arrest."

"Because if he does, what next, you shoot him?" Henry opened his eyes. "Or hang him from the yard-arm? A boy who should be in school."

"Smaller boys that he are hanged for stealing a loaf of bread. Not that I think it right. That is, it has to be called right in that it's the law. But I don't like it. As it is, Dick Musgrove has three years on Sam." William shrugged.

"He's not fit for this kind of work," Henry said.

"Truth is, he's not fit for much of anything. If he was just shy, what we call blessed are the peace-makers, for we never like to say the word 'coward' outright, in cold blood, you know. If he was timid, he could be put to a clerkship in the Navy office, or the like. But he's no hand with pen or counter. A coward sober, and a bully when he's in liquor, which is all the time he can find it. If he was home, he'd be cutting capers like pretending to be a highwayman. He's no use to us, see, where we have to depend on each other. That's what duty means, each trusts the next man to do his part. Then we all come through."

"I understand what you say about duty, but I find I don't blame him, or any other man, for a natural instinct in self-preservation."

William said soberly, "We all have it. I've found out that under fire, we're all afraid. Or most."

Henry would have abandoned the subject if he had been in London. But in London such a subject never would have arisen. It was not witty, or clever, or modish. He seemed impelled, whether by pain, or fever, or some need he did not recognize, to speak. "I never believed in Hell, but if there is one, it could be no worse. Maybe Hell is really this life—war and pestilence. It seems an exercise in futility, murdering one another, when ten years ago I toured in France, and I liked the people and the place. And I can't help thinking that in any battle with them, both sides are praying to the same God for victory."

There was a hesitation, as the eternal surge rushed and slapped the hull, and men's quiet voices rose and fell, sometimes punctuated by a laugh.

"I think you're better asking Cousin Edmund about such things, that being his business, so to speak. Just as he wouldn't tell someone how to box-haul a brig off a lee shore. But I like to think that Davey Ebbins, as good a man as ever lived, is back with his family, took by the bloody flux ten years ago. He was on the foremast crosstrees when it fell."

William shifted, sniffed the air, and said, "We're getting a breeze." He reached around and rapped the deck gently with his knuckles. "As for my letters, I tell Fanny the things she'd like to hear. You know, what I talked about, when I visited my Bertram cousins that year. High waves in typhoons, but we survived it. Strange beasts at sea. Odd sights, like rings around the moon, and Leviathan swimming alongside us, giving us a knock against the hull in play, that shakes the ship to the royal yards. Next letter, I'll tell her about the monkey that Sam bought in Trinidad off a Portugee fellow, taught to dance on the capstan when someone blows a pennywhistle."

"Yes, she would like that. If no one is cruel to the monkey."

"Well that's the thing about Sister Fanny. She expects Sam to be good to the monkey. She wants life to be good. She lives the good life."

Ting! Ting!

"My watch. Shall I send your man with any more tea? A biscuit?"

"I am pe rfectly content.Thank you."

Footsteps moved away rapidly, and Henry lay, enjoying the whisper of wind over his limbs. The embers in his leg had banked. If he didn't move at all . . .

***

As the wind picked up, life began to flow back into Henry. He woke ravenous for the first time. The ship began to come to life, so the surgeon's mate and a party of seamen carried the wounded down below again. Bryce hovered anxiously, clearly relieved when Henry asked for something to eat.

The surgeon came around to check that no wounds had broken open, after everyone was below. "We'll get your man to shift your clothes, I think," he said heartily to Crawford. "Another application of burnt brandy will keep the cool humours circulating, and the dangerous warm ones in check. You eat, and rest, and walk about as much as ever you can. I've found that the sooner a man is up and about, the sooner the humours circulate, and healing sets in."

The sooner you have him back at labor, Henry thought, but he kept that to himself.

"If you get feverish, you tell us and we'll blood you. But I suspect you'll do."

The surgeon began to turn away, but Henry reached to catch his wrist. "Will I walk with a limp?"

The surgeon frowned. He was haggard, unshaven, his eyes red-rimmed. He glanced at Henry's foot, still encased in the blood-crusted stocking, and shrugged. "I expect so. You might need a cane, but you'll do." The tone of voice on those last two words was very different from the previous use. Impatient, and perhaps a judgment. Henry heard the separation of rank in those words: until then they had been two men, one recently in danger of losing his life, the other working to preserve it, but now Henry had once again become a wealthy man of rank, and as such, a cane would not be the tragedy that it might for some of these other fellows, whose livelihood depended on working limbs.

Bryce approached with the shaving kit, and a can of hot water. Henry had never enjoyed an experience more than that shave and partial bathe. He had never before reveled in the feel of a clean shirt.

He felt demonstrably better; Bryce was eager to tend him, and Henry wondered if the eagerness had to do with the prospect of being cast ashore in a foreign land with a dead master and no money, but he said nothing. That was only to be expected; the pettinesses and absurdities of life were closing around him once again. But he possessed not the energy to resent them.

With Bryce's help he rose for the first time. The initial steps were painful indeed, but Henry persevered, determined to get the humours moving, or whatever would heal him fastest.

As the day turned into two, he took more short walks, and even helped a little with such homely tasks as bringing blankets to a man whose leg had been sawed off, and carrying around the water bucket for those who still could not rise to drink.

He listened to the buzz of conversation now that the patients were stronger. They talked about those of every rank, from captain to old hands. The least was said about the captain; it was as if Wentworth had sprung from the brow of Mars onto the quarterdeck. No one seemed to know anything of his family or even if he had one.

When Henry was called to place another blanket over the amputee, the empty space next to the healthy leg was shocking. The man lay in a sweat, either sleeping or staring overhead at nothing, except when his mess mates appeared. Henry found it both amusing and odd, how these huge, grizzled men with the accents of dockyard mateys spoke as if to a small child as they coaxed and pleaded and praised "Old Tom" by turns, in an effort to get him to eat.

Henry meditated on his reaction, and recognized in it that this old, uneducated sailor had value to these others. He wondered how much value he would have to anyone, if he was not possessed of rank and wealth.

Henry was not without visitors. William came when he could, but now that the ship was under way again, the officers and seamen were busy shaping the wounded ship for Minorca. Benwick came down twice, once bringing him a much-battered little booklet. "Here's a capital satire by a Yankee name of Bryant, about their Jefferson. If you want any more reading, just sing out."

Henry was reading The Embargo when the constant murmur of chatter suddenly died, and he found the Captain entering.

"How are you feeling, Mr. Crawford?"

"Much recovered, thank you, Captain."

"The thanks are mine, for your generous aid in a tightish moment. We shall be reaching Minorca by tomorrow, if the wind holds. I would like to invite you to dinner tonight, in celebration of our triumph, to which you contributed no small part. If you can sit."

"I should like that very much."

***

" . . . and then we loosed our third broadside from the starboard guns, to prodigious effect, but we had yet to come about . . ."

Over dinner, the battle was refought in every detail. Only now, instead of sharp, high voices barking blasphemies and orders, the voices were low, deep, appreciative chuckles, the shared mirth of triumph and mutual compliment.

Instead of white faces, blood- or powder-splashed, and round mouths and eyes, faces were flushed with heat and good humor.

The merchant, not present at the dinner, had remained the entire time in the orlop. The company assured one another that was no reflection on the fellow, not the least fling at merchants, and he'd only done what he'd been told—but they despised him for it. Sir Charles had apparently gone into the maintop with his own pistols and ball to take the place of a Marine sharpshooter who had been wounded; he was there to regale his auditors with the history of every shot.

The words "bravery" and "courage" were thrown about freely. Henry raised his glass, smiled, laughed, saluted with the others, while knowing that much as they might cheer his bravery, his primary motivation had been relief. He had orders, he had something of purpose however little of his wit and skill was required to perform it, and his very determination to perform that labor had less to do with courage than a desperate conviction that if he did what he was told, there might be order restored in a world where all semblance of order had flown.

"Pho, pho, I only did my duty as I saw it."

That was the most common refrain. Much was said of duty, in high-flown compliment that once would have stirred Henry to reach for his pen and exercise his wit against such trumpery. But Mary—once his closest confidant—was out of reach, still angry for her loss of Edmund Bertram, and also, it seemed, on behalf of Maria Rushworth.

Before Henry sat William Price, who flushed with pride at every fulsome compliment, perhaps taking more meaning than was meant, for he himself never uttered humbug.

" . . . the bottle stands by you, Mr. Crawford."

Henry started out of his reverie. He poured out wine, then raised his glass. "Here's to duty," he said recklessly. "Lus summum saepe summast militia."

They all shouted, "Hear him, hear him!" but Henry saw comprehension in only Sir Charles and Captain Wentworth.

William, at his right, leaned over to whisper, "Was that a Latin tag, sir?"

"Yes. By a fellow named Terence." Whose great works were all lost at sea. But Henry was not going to say that.

William thanked him, and raised his glass as Benwick, whose flushed face and bright eyes hinted at one too many glasses, gave a long, and somewhat maudlin, tribute to his lady love, borrowing freely from at least three poets.

Perhaps it was his unsteady hand, or perhaps the subject, but when that was finished, Captain Wentworth raised his own glass, and in his strong nautical voice toasted the king, which served as the signal that the dinner was over.

William helped Henry to the door, and thence to the railing, where the balmy air was refreshing. Henry looked around for Bryce, then leaned against the rail. Duty. There was an important thought hovering at the edge of his mind about duty, and William Price, and Captain Wentworth, who did not want to hang a lubberly boy at the yard-arm for cowardice, though he had a right to by the Articles of War.

"A question, sir, if I may ask."

Henry's head ached from the wine, and the heat, and from being too long upright after days of lying in bed. His leg throbbed. But here was the captain, leaning against the rail next to him, his fine profile outlined against the Mediterranean stars. '"The law at its most rigorous is often injustice at its worst.' May I ask what prompted that?"

Wherever Wentworth had come from, he had obviously been educated as a gentleman.

"It was not a fling at the service," Crawford said. "Or at present company. The truth is, I hardly know what prompted it."

"We will not hang that young dog Musgrove. I've a friend, an old steady captain, who might do better than I with influence, and I will trade him out."

"I was thinking about him, I must admit, though I do not mean to be interfering with your ship's affairs. I was also thinking about duty. Despite all the rhetorical flourish, something young Price said to me defines it better than any Parliamentary speeches: 'That's what duty means, each trusts the next man to do his part. So we all come through.'"

Captain Wentworth gazed up at the rigging, then out to sea. "That's what it comes to, in the end. Each does his part. I won't play the hypocrite and prate of the evils of war when it has been so good to me. I am a wealthy man . . . not that it much matters. But there you go. I admit that life, as well as the law, admits of its ironies."

Henry had always matched his tone to his company, which had made him observant of the flicker of an eyelid, the slight lift to shoulder, the curl of lip that betrayed motivations and sentiments that people might keep hidden.

Most of the time such things ought to be hidden. But this captain's signals did not hint of greed, or ambition. Henry thought he detected the signs of another who had been disappointed in love. Or perhaps it was simply that his head hurt, and his leg—which might never be right again—was aching like the devil.

"One of the ironies of life," Henry said, "is that the strongest person I know is not a warrior, but a woman."

Henry waited, but the captain made no answer. Yet the man had stilled, and Henry sensed that his chance shot had struck home. He could not define how or why he should bestir himself, other than that vague sense of duty that lay outside of the narrow meaning of military order. He would gain nothing, he might even embarrass himself, for he did not at all know this Wentworth. But . . . Fanny had faith that her brother would be good to the monkey.

Henry said, "Though everyone in her life did their damndest to force her to a decision against her principles, she held firm. Though she had no power, or influence, or any of the mastery and authority we men insist is ours by right. Is that not the truest definition of strength?"

"Land ho," the lookout called overhead.

It snowed quite unexpectedly one April morning, the first year they were married. Anne had just dressed, and went to the window to pull back the curtains and let in a little more light. It was the fine, unpleasant kind of snow, better suited to the driving winds of January than early April. Already it was starting to stick to the ground, like pale white sand.

"Perhaps you had better not go to town today, Frederick," Anne said, when he came to stand beside her at the window.

He brought his hands to rest on her shoulders, his thumbs slipping from the fabric of her dress onto the skin of her neck. She leaned slightly back against him and crossed her arms in front of her, and he, taking the invitation, wrapped his arms around her, so his large hands were resting over her small ones.

"I think I must," he told her, pressing his words against her cheek. "I am expecting a letter from London, in answer to some inquiries about Mrs. Smith's property in the West Indies. If the news is what I expect, it will require as prompt a response as I can give it. Besides," he said, and Anne could feel his slight smile, "what kind of captain would I be, if I could not bear a little snow?"

Anne looked out at the grey cold and shivered, glad of the warm press of her husband's body behind her. "It snowed often then, at Gibraltar?" she asked, and he laughed.

"I will wear my wool coat," he promised, and kissed her on the top of the head.

When Frederick left, Anne sat down to her correspondence. There was little enough of it; a letter from Mary to reply to, and one from Lady Russell. She also owed the Crofts a note – the Admiral and Mrs. Croft had invited them to stay for a while at Kellynch, after their wedding, but Anne could not bear to. To be reminded of the indifference of her own family, while enjoying the warm welcome of his, was more than she wished to endure in her first months of marriage. Instead they had taken a house a little outside of Lyme, near enough to his friends that they would not lack for company, and near enough for Lady Russell to visit when she could.

Anne finished her replies, enjoying the quiet warmth of her home. She sat down to the pianoforte, tempted by the new music Frederick had bought for her. She played for some time, taking pleasure from the music, and the knowledge that her practice was no longer only for her own benefit.

It was not until the servant came in to light the lamps that she began to be worried. Outside, the snow still feel steadily, wetter and denser than it had been in the morning. The windows were cold to the touch, and when Anne stood at them and peered out, she could see her breath.

So she began to wait, picking up a novel and putting it aside again, walking up the stairs for a better prospect of the road from the windows in their bedroom.

Finally, she heard muffled hoofbeats, and saw him and his horse ride into the yard. She pulled on a coat, ran down the stairs and outside to him. Her slippers offered little protection against the snow, but she was hardly aware.

Frederick had given the horse to the stable boy, and met her in the middle of the yard. He followed her inside, shrugging off his coat and handing it to the servant.

"The news is as I hoped," he told her, as she turned to face him. His clothes were soaked at the shoulders, his hair wet, his face pale. He reached into his pocket to pull out the letter, but she grabbed his hand and pulled him upstairs before he could reach it, not giving him the opportunity to protest.

"Dry clothes," she told him.

He nodded his assent and she stepped out into the hallway. "Bring some brandy," she called down to the servant, "and a hot meal, on a tray." When she returned to the bedroom, Frederick's wet clothes were hanging by the fire, and he was buttoning up a fresh shirt.

She reached out and pressed her hand to his cheek.

"Sit down by the fire, Frederick," she told him, moving to fetch a blanket to warm him with.

He did so, but reluctantly. "Anne, it is only a slight chill." He turned to the fire gratefully, nonetheless.

She bent to hand him the blanket, hiding her smile. "I would trust you more if you were shivering less."

He shrugged under the blanket. "I've been much colder."

"I know," she replied quietly, lowering herself to the floor beside his chair. Her pride in his bravery had not changed since their marriage, but his memories of war made her fear that he should be sent to another one, away from her again.

He rested his hand on her head, stroking gently. "But that was before I had you to take care of me," he told her. "I confess I wish I had you then."

"To keep you from catching cold during those dark Spanish nights?" she teased gently, comforted by his touch, trying to deflect her own fears.

"To make me smile during them," he said.

The servant knocked then, and Anne rose to fetch their suppers. She sat down next to him again, and they ate in silence beside each other, watching the fire.

At length, he asked, "Do you find me to be sufficiently warm?"

She knelt and pressed her lips to his hand, smiling against his skin. "I do."

He threw off the blanket and drew her onto his lap, and she settled against him, content.

"You think Mrs. Smith's business will be resolved favourably, then?" she asked.

"Yes," he replied, after a moment.

"She is fortunate to have you to look after her interests." She rested a hand on his cheek.

"And I am fortunate to have you," he said.

Lieutenant Anson tumbled into Captain Wentworth's cabin in a breathless plunge. "Sail to windward, sir!" he gasped and was gone before Wentworth could ask for clarification.

In a few seconds, Wentworth was on deck, fastening his swordbelt over his nightshirt and breeches. "Where?" he asked Benwick, but it wasn't necessary; everybody was staring northwest and the sails of the French-commanded squadron were as clear on the horizon as he'd expected.

Wentworth ran up to the topmast crosstrees, from where the ships were visible hull-up. He took a sharp breath at the sight of the enemy squadron and murmured a quiet, "By God..." But by the time he'd slid back to deck, he was smiling with a cheerfulness he hoped appeared natural.

"Six frigates, gentlemen," he said, "with four or five unrated to add spice."

Wentworth saw trepidation growing on the faces of some of his crew. Beside him, Anson swallowed deeply and Wentworth had to fight down his growing irritation with the man. Caution was all well and good but Anson took it to extremes that approached cowardice.

"And we," Wentworth said, "are four." His smile grew. "I confess, I like these odds."

"As do I," Lieutenant Benwick said, and met Wentworth's gaze with a sharp nod. A first lieutenant who distinguished himself in an action like this was one step closer to being made commander. It was an important consideration for any man but especially for one who waited impatiently to be in a position to marry. And, Wentworth thought, with a tinge of the familiar bitterness, who was fortunate enough to be waiting for a woman who didn't consider a mere commander beneath her notice.

"Signal from the flag, sir," Midshipman Thomas reported. "Form line, Amphion, Active, Volage, Laconia."

"Very good. Benwick, join line once Volage passes. Oh, and I think we might clear for action, don't you?"

"Aye, aye, sir," Benwick said, his smile fierce. "Bosun, call up the larboard watch and clear for action. Shiver the topsails until Volage is past then fall in astern."

The shrill whistle of the bosun's call pierced the air and Wentworth decided to take advantage of the wait for action to go below and dress properly.

While he prepared to shave, he frowned slightly.

At least three, and he suspected four, of the French ships were heavy frigates of forty guns. In comparison, the strongest ship in the British squadron was the 38-gun Active while little Volage was rated at only twenty-two. And Amphion may have 18-pounders but, like Laconia, she had only thirty-two of them.

Still, he had won against far worse odds, and he had faith in Hoste of Amphion as a commander. The man had, after all, served on Nelson's quarterdeck, and he'd proved himself since taking command of the squadron.

And there was the added spur that victory was essential.

The tiny island of Lissa was crucial; the key to the Adriatic. Without the refuge of the harbour at Port St. George, British vessels would be forced to return to Malta or Sicily, severely curtailing their activities.

And Dubourdieu's squadron carried a batallion of infantry, ready to subdue the island.

No, Wentworth decided, and made the first sweep of the razor across his cheek. Defeat could not be permitted.

By the time he came back on deck, dressed in trousers and his oldest tunic, with his heavy, boarding sword at his waist, the four ships of the British squadron had formed close line and were sailing towards Lissa, clearly aiming to intercept the French. "Heave the log," Wentworth ordered, and the report came back that they were making just over five knots. "Bosun, pipe the hands down, mess by mess, for what breakfast they can snatch."

"Aye, aye, sir."

"You should eat something yourself, sir," Benwick said quietly.

"I will," Wentworth said, but he was paying no real attention. This close to battle, his attention was all for his ship. "I'm going aloft to get a better idea what we're facing."

From the foretop crosstrees, he could see all of the French ships clearly. The familiar Favorite was flying the commodore's flag and with her were Corona, Danae and Flore, all forty-gun ships. Bellona and Carolina were both 32-gun and he'd estimate the brig at sixteen guns, the schooner at ten and the xebec at less than that. The two gunboats were of less concern, being more likely to cause trouble for the island's shore defences.

He leaned back against the mast and looked forward. Barely visible past the smooth curve of the flying jib, he could see Volage. Like Laconia, she was cleared for action, but had only half her crew on deck, the rest no doubt eating below. As he watched, Captain Hornby turned and caught his eye from the quarterdeck. With a smile, he touched his hat and Wentworth returned the gesture, before Hornby turned back to study the French squadron.

Dubourdieu had formed his ships into two divisions, each of three frigates and several unrated vessels, giving each division greater strength than the entire British squadron. Combined with the advantage of strength was that of the weather-gauge, and the French were losing no time in forcing the engagement.

All for the good, Wentworth decided. It was the wait for action that sapped a crew's courage.

He was about to slide back to deck when a roar of cheering burst out from Volage. He looked up sharply to see signal flags at her mizzen, passing on the message from Amphion, and a moment later his own crew burst out in cries of, "Huzzah!"

Six hoists, and it only took a moment to translate the message: "Remember Nelson."

Wentworth laughed out loud and added his own, bellowing, "Huzzah!" to the shouts of his crew, before swinging his leg over the stay and sliding to the deck fast enough to leave his hands a little scorched.

"Pipe to quarters," Wentworth called as he mounted the quarterdeck. The bosun's call shrilled out loud but there was hardly any noise in response, certainly not the usual deafening tramp of feet; the men were already at their posts.

"Well, Benwick," Wentworth said, loosening his sword in its scabbard. "Ready for a good fight?"

"Always, sir. Let the French come and we'll give them a proper English trouncing."

"Anson?"

"Yes, sir." There was no enthusiasm from the man; there never was, no matter the order. If the man was ever promoted commander, he'd meet the news with the same wide-eyed look of alarm as he greeted everything.

But then Amphion fired her first broadside, and there was the familiar surge of exultation, overwhelming any fears, as he gave his own command and Laconia let loose.

For now, with the French presenting their bows to the British, the smaller squadron had all the advantage and Wentworth had every intention of pounding it home. Laconia had been fortunate to have largely the same crew for three years and their training showed.

Laconia's timbers shook and she rolled as all sixteen of her starboard guns fired within moments of one another and he tensed with an unthinking joy in the whole thing; the sound of the guns more feeling than noise; the sharp tang of powder, already drying his mouth; and he wondered if he could feel the same with the responsibility of a family ashore.

Danae, leading the leeward division, was suffering for it and unable to bring anything more than her light bow chasers to bear. Even so, the chasers were enough to tear up the occasional flying splinter and Anson already had flecks of blood on his face. Wentworth suspected he did, too, but he had no time to consider it.

Another thundering roar from the starboard guns, staggered now as some guncrews worked faster than others, and Wentworth's grip tightened involuntarily on the taffrail as he stared in the direction of the enemy. Although the wind was blowing his own powder smoke away to larboard, it was also leaving the French smoke between the squadrons and his guncrews were aiming at nothing more precise than a cloud.

"Signal to wear," Thomas shouted above the roar of the guns.

Wear? Wentworth thought frantically. Was there sea room? The Lissan coast was close to larboard, a bare half-cable away. But, of course, Hoste had spent several days charting this very coast - and it was good odds that the French hadn't.

"Wear ship!" Wentworth roared and his crew sprang into action. "Helm to starboard!"

Slowly, Laconia turned to larboard, moving quicker as her mizzen stays'l was hauled down and her mizzen tops'l allowed to shiver. With the main sheet eased, the wind caught her head sails and paid her off to leeward.

"Loose main bowlines!"

And the Laconia shuddered, lurched, and her smooth turn to leeward stopped, leaving her hanging.

Wentworth's first thought was that they'd struck bottom but Benwick's cry of, "Rudder's hit!" relieved that fear, although the Lissan coast was looming ever closer ahead of them and Volage coming up to starboard.

"Clew up maintops'l and main t'gallant! Hoist inner and outer jibs and sprits'l!" He stared anxiously at Volage and called Thomas. "Signal to Volage: 'Keep clear; am manoeuvring with difficulty.'"

If he could just get enough power on her head sails to swing her round without the help of the rudder, they might still make it. And then a ball whistled overhead and the mizzen topgallant mast seemed almost to crumble into the sea, and he could have shouted with the joy of it.

With the remains of the mizzen topgallant mast acting as a sea anchor, Laconia's head swung round with that tiny, vital amount of extra speed and he was able to give the order to shift the jib sheets over the stays. An anxious moment of wondering if he'd given the order too soon and condemned his ship to fall onto the shore, and then the jibs caught, he ordered the mizzen stays'l hoisted and they were able to join line, between Volage and Action.

"The rudder's shattered and the pintle's bent," Benwick reported, soaked to the skin from his inspection of the damage, "but it's repairable. I've got Crayton and Sayers hammering the pin straight and the carpenter's putting together a new rudder. He says less than half an hour."

"Good." Wentworth glanced around, and wiped blood from his eye. "Where's Anson?"

"Gone below to have a splinter wound bound up."

"Damn him," Wentworth said, and instantly regretted it, but Benwick gave no sign of having heard.

And then there was no time for conversation as he made out Corona through the smoke to larboard and the speed of Laconia's guncrews came into play. This close, accuracy had nothing to do with it and he wished he had some of Volage's 32-pound carronades. His own twelve-pound balls were having no effect on the Venetian ship while her eighteen-pounders, along with those of the more distant Carolina, were throwing up splinters and-

With a noise audible even over the cannon, the fore topmast was hit hard enough to snap it in two.

"Damn their eyes," Wentworth cursed. "Clew up mizzen tops'l! Set the forecourse!"

Benwick was already ordering the remains cut away but it meant calling off men who were working on splicing the mains'l clew garnet block and bowline bridle and it was the usual complaint of never enough men.

Corona was moving ever closer and, damn, never enough men. If she chose to board Laconia, he was done for. His only hope was to storm her first. Swing Laconia to larboard, lash her on, and be prepared for his crew to be slaughtered.

It was that or strike his colours.

And then the choice was taken from him as another frigate came up between Corona and Laconia, ghostly in the smog. He'd give the bitch one last broadside from musket-shot range before he surrendered, though.

But the smoke cleared for a second and - that was Captain Gordon. The frigate was Active! Active, by God!

Active let off a ragged broadside at Corona. The Venetian frigate returned it but fractured, barely half her guns firing, and then she was gone, making a run for safety with all sail set.

"What's our condition?" Wentworth demanded as Benwick returned to the quarterdeck.

"The rudder's replaced. The fore topmast's being prepared, the main t'gallant mast can barely hold its own weight and we've four feet and growing in the hold."

"Then we can chase," Wentworth said, and he knew his grin was as wild as Benwick's, both their faces smeared with sweat, blood and dust. "Let's see if we can't stop Active having all the fun!"

"Aye, sir!" And Benwick had never looked happier to receive an order.

The chase gave them time to repair the worst of the damage. The carpenter and his mates had patched the hole beneath the larboard cathead and Laconia was no longer taking water too fast for the pumps to keep rate. Nine seamen, including Lieutenant Anson, had been committed to the sea, with only the briefest of ceremonies. A replacement mizzen topgallant mast had been swayed up, the main topgallant mast fished in place, and the fore topmast was being replaced now.

Just as importantly, the crew had rested and taken some dinner, and Wentworth himself, politely hounded by Benwick, had finally given in and eaten. Despite Benwick's exhortations, he contented himself with a piece of cold pease-pudding, eaten on deck as he trimmed Laconia's sails and tried not to think about Anson. He would deal with that guilt when he wrote to Anson's parents. For now, he desperately tried to coax enough speed out of Laconia's poor, shattered rigging to keep Corona in sight.

They were making seven knots now and Corona and Active were still easing ahead, flying over the sea with occasional spouts of smoke from Active's bow chasers to show the fight was still going. And he desperately wanted to be up there with them but there was nothing he could do to speed up repairs and, until the foretopmast was replaced, he was too limited in what sail he could hoist on the other masts.

But then there was a shout from the foremast and a beautiful, beautiful tumble of sailcloth from the foretopyard, and they stood a chance, at last!

"Hoist fore t'gallant!! And get the mizzen tops'l and driver up!" And the slight hum as he touched Laconia's stays told him that she was flying as fast as she could. "Heave the log, Carew."

"Ten knots and a little over a fathom, sir!"

Thank God for a fleet frigate and the wind to make her run.

"We'll be catching up with Corona, lads," he called. "What say we show her what English seamen can do?"

The roar from the crew gave him his answer.

Wentworth ran up to the foretop and raised his glass to study the two ships ahead of them. Active still fired her bow chasers occasionally; more, he judged, out of hope of luck than expectation of skill. In contrast, Corona was putting everything into getting away and, as he watched, she began to pump her water.

"She'd do better to take in some sail," Wentworth muttered. With the wind this far aft, Corona was stealing her own wind by hoisting so much canvas. And it was telling because both Active and Laconia were creeping ever closer.

He slid back to deck and found Benwick waiting for him. "Sir, I think the men might take it well if we gave Corona a shot or two from the bow chasers."

Wentworth smiled. "The men?"

"The men," Benwick confirmed but his mouth was tight with suppressed laughter and it was no secret that Benwick dearly loved laying a gun.

"I see no reason why not," Wentworth said and it was a matter of minutes before the starboard bow chaser spat out a ball.

It fell short, of course, but roused a cheer from the crew, and he left them to it as he went to see what other sail his ship could bear.

"Signal from Active, sir." Thomas' tunic was soaked with blood and his head was bandaged but he stuck rigidly to his station and Wentworth made a note to commend the youngster in his report of the action. "She'll engage Corona from windward; requests you engage from leeward."

"Signal acknowledgeme-"

A jubilant cheer erupted from the fo'c'sle and young Carew came tearing aft. "We've hit her, sir!"

"Report properly, you young fool!"

The boy snapped straight. "Report we've parted her starboard mizzen shrouds, sir."

Wentworth clapped his glass to his eye. And, by God, the boy was right. Her mizzen was sagging to leeward, her sails dropping. Whether by luck or skill, Benwick had indeed brought it off.

"Back to your station." Wentworth glanced up at Laconia's sails. "Hoist maintop stays'l!"

They crept ever closer to the fleeing Corona, Wentworth agonising over each cable gained, fighting the temptation to fuss further with Laconia's sails. She was carrying what she should and there was nothing he could do to will her faster.

But with every cable, Laconia's gunfire grew more accurate until Benwick left it to the gun's captains and returned to the quarterdeck, his jacket scorched with burns.

"Did you enjoy yourself?" Wentworth asked.

Benwick's smile was bright in his powder-blackened face. "Of course."

"We'll give Corona something more to worry about," Wentworth said. "Yaw ship and give her our starboard broadside."

"Aye, sir."

The helm was put hard to lee, and Wentworth gripped the taffrail as Laconia surged round and her broadside bellowed out, then she was allowed to fall back onto her old course. Wentworth peered through the clearing smoke and could just make out the wreck of Corona's mizzen. More smoke as Active loosed her own broadside, and all the while, Corona was swinging to leeward without the mizzen to counteract her headsails.

Closer still, with guns pounding constantly and Corona taking fire from both sides.

"Why will she not just strike?" Wentworth shouted.

"Would you?" Benwick asked, and, after a moment, Wentworth shook his head.

"But I wouldn't fight to the last man. She must see she hasn't a chance."

"Wait." Benwick snatched his glass from his pocket, and opened it to find it shattered. "Damn!"

Wentworth pulled out his own glass and handed it to Benwick. "What is it, man?"

"Can you see her colours?" Benwick asked, passing the glass back, and Wentworth studied the Venetian's masts through the smoke.

"By God... Cease firing! Cease!" It took time for the order to filter through but, by the time the last gun fired, the smoke was clearing and the empty masthead was plain.

"Signal from Active - request you send a party to take possession of Corona," Thomas said, talking loud enough that it was plain he was still deafened from the guns.

Benwick's slow smile was filled with disbelief. "Gordon's letting me take Corona in?"

There was no need to say more. Whichever lieutenant captained Corona into harbour would be near guaranteed the step to commander - and Gordon was letting that honour go to Benwick.

"Well, man," Wentworth said, "what are you waiting for? Take a prize crew and take possession!"

"Aye, sir." Benwick was rapidly coming back to himself but, before he left the quarterdeck, he paused long enough to salute his captain, then firmly shake his hand. "Thank you, sir."

"Thank Gordon," Wentworth said. "And, Benwick?"

"Sir?"

"I expect to be invited to the wedding." Saying it hurt more than he'd expected.

Benwick's smile was vivid. "That, sir, I can fairly guarantee."

The door to her chambers opened, and Mrs. Smith grimaced, making a gesture to her maid, who was fixing her hair with a little too much force.

'I like your hair much better down, you know,' observed Mr. Smith from the doorway.

'And when it is only you and me, Mr. Smith, it stays down,' answered his wife, without moving.

'Do you plan on being much delayed, madam?'

'You will have to ask Sally,' she answered. 'Once my hair is done, so am I.'

He did not ask, but instead leaned against the doorway and watched his wife, unmoving for a long moment. 'Elliot is waiting for us downstairs,' he said, finally.

'Good!' she said. 'He has been missed. How is his lovely butcher's daughter?'

'Hide your claws, dear, and ask him. He has not said a word of it to me.'

'He is your friend,' she said, without conviction.

He smiled, looking down, and straightened up. 'Sometimes, I wonder.' And he added, before she could think of something to say, 'We will be in the drawing room.'

The silence of the empty doorway sounded more accusing than his words had been.

To Frederick Wentworth, Captain, HMS Laconia

My dear Frederick,

I will not allow that because I am in the Indies you are no longer required to write. News of your adventures reaches even here eventually, and the Admiral and I are thrilled to hear of your exploits in the Mediterranean. Naturally, reading papers which are months old and contain only the official reports are merely whetting to the appetite, like a half-ration of salt pork. You must write and give us the full story. One may be adept at reading between the lines and yet still long to hear it all spelled out—the Admiral is quite keen not to be left entirely out of the adventure, and if one cannot make them jealous, then what is family for?

I regret to say that despite the close manner of our upbringing I am entirely uncertain as to what in the news I might convey could excite similar envy. Being an intrepid fellow and yourself not far from the Equator, I shall not have to tell you of the heat of a sun-roasted deck nor the appalling lack of breeze at midday. I might describe the queer rigging and strange shapes of the native boats, but the Admiral is looking over my shoulder at the moment and informs me he wishes to tell you such himself in the letter he shall send along with mine. I believe I shall oblige him, for his nerves have been sorely tried already of late, though not by me.

In my last letter I believe I mentioned that Captains Wexler and Forbes had conceived some antipathy one for the other. Wexler accosted Forbes with the notion last week that he was neglecting his duties on account of having taken up with a native mistress. Forbes apparently claimed his ship was better run by his midshipmen than Wexler’s was by its captain, and then the next day Forbes’ gun crews trounced Wexler’s in target practice. The matter appeared resolved, but just last night at the Admiral’s table, Captain Wexler was suffering the effects of a bad hand of cards and chose to accuse Captain Forbes of cheating.

I must admit to finding Richard Forbes more than occasionally unpleasant, but he is scrupulously honest, whatever his other faults, and I cannot approve of Matthew Wexler’s apparent disregard for propriety, whatever his other charms. I begin to suspect, indeed, that Captain Wexler might have a weak head for drink, for I very much doubt anything but the port wine was speaking last evening. The Admiral, of course, was appalled, and had to forbid Forbes from calling Wexler out—he threatened to throw them both in irons, if you would believe it. Small wonder his steward treads so carefully today in light of the Admiral’s well-deserved bad humor. He has himself appeared over my shoulder once more and requests and requires me to note that his mood is alleviated by my presence and would I kindly join him for a turn about the quarterdeck. And so, dear brother, with a letter filled with nothing but gossip but also with affection and an earnest desire to hear more of you soon,

Your loving sister,
Sophie

Sir Walter Elliot had loved his first wife.

In his way.

After all, she had been a very fine looking woman, and so many women were nothing more than frights.

His second wife -- well, she was young. In a manner of speaking. Perhaps Anne’s age? Well, in any case, comparatively young, and very strikingly handsome. Her origins were not the best, but twenty thousand pounds was nothing to sneer at.

And always so attentive!

For her part, the new Lady Elliot had gained her heart’s desire -- an establishment of her own and precedence over Elizabeth Darcy. Her husband, to be sure, was . . . chronologically advanced . . . but for a man of his age, not unattractive at all.

Caroline had no intentions of enjoying The Marital Act. This was rather fortunate for her.

‘Ummph,’ Sir Walter grunted. It was more difficult than he had anticipated. He had not actually been with a real woman in quite awhile.

Louisa had not exaggerated, Caroline thought, wincing. It was really very unpleasant. And because of his penchant for mirrors, she could see . . . everything.

His hair, she noticed, was a little greasy now, and his frame covered in sweat. She sighed, and shifted uncomfortably beneath him.

‘Urrglblfrk,’ said Sir Walter, and collapsed on her.

He was not a small man. Her breath was knocked out of her. ‘Sir . . . Walt . . . er,’ she gasped. ‘I cannot breathe.’

His long nose dug into her collarbone; something dribbled out of his nostrils. She wrinkled her own, and pushed him away, using what little strength she possessed. He began snoring contentedly.

Caroline changed and locked her door with a shudder, remembering the peculiar conversation she had overheard between her sisters-in-law.

Elizabeth Darcy, she thought, must be quite, quite mad.

"The Musgroves had had the ill fortune of a very troublesome, hopeless son, and the good fortune to lose him before he reached his twentieth year; he had been sent to sea because he was stupid and unmanageable on shore. He had, in fact, been nothing better than a thick-headed, unfeeling, unprofitable Dick Musgrove, who had never done anything to entitle himself to more than the abbreviation of his name, living or dead." *

Such a boy was Dick Musgrove, scarcely regretted by any in his family circle, but on this occasion, Anne could not help but envy him. Thinking over the evening in pleasant solitude, Anne allowed herself a smile as she imagined Mary’s reaction to such an idea.

‘An Elliot envy a Musgrove! She had never heard such a thing. To be sure, the Musgroves might all envy her, and be quite thankful she had married into their family, though they said precious little about it.’

But on this evening, “poor Richard” came to mind as a most enviable being, for he had spent six months with him! Looking out the window, her lively fancy saw not the evening-darkened gardens but the sun-drenched stillness of the Mediterranean seas, and painted the vision of hapless Dick Musgrove on the decks of the Laconia, bent in studious effort over a letter to his parents, with Captain Wentworth looking on! Unconscious, unfeeling Dick Musgrove, to spend six months in his presence and not even to realize his fortune beyond a few badly spelled words of praise.

If she had been there, she would have been sensible of every moment of freedom which such a life afforded, of the great benefit of being daily aboard a ship captained by so bright, so able a man as Frederick Wentworth. Fired by Mrs. Croft’s defense of women aboard a ship of the line, and fueled by years of staying home with one eye on a window, Anne’s imagination lent a peculiar brightness to her countenance as she envisioned a life more varied and less confining than her own—that which might have been hers under different circumstances.

She could picture the Laconia, the name no stranger to her in connection with him as it was to the Miss Musgroves, but familiar as the Asp and that of every other ship on which he had sailed. Not hers, the crisp sheets of the new naval lists, but the carefully pressed pages of earlier versions kept safely unnoticed in the library. For nothing attracted much attention there were it not the Book of books. His description this evening had but confirmed her surmises drawn from the listings and the papers, that for once the Navy seemed to reward one who so truly deserved it. She felt a familiar tingle of pride for having recognized his merits before anyone else, tempered by the equally familiar sting of regret.

On an evening like this, one might suppose the sting to have been made sharper by the Miss Musgroves and their easy converse with the gallant Captain. Anyone else might assume them easily to be the envied Musgroves in this situation, with youth and vivacity to build their confidence and give spirit to their discourse, rather than their unregretted brother. After all, had Anne not the history she had with Frederick, she too might have been able to chatter and admire with cheerful unconcern.

But Anne held one thought, one warm and comfortable bit of knowledge, that the Miss Musgroves might both envy her if they knew what they had missed, that which only Anne had seen. That quick, wry smile, that slight hesitation before acknowledging Mrs. Musgrove’s effusions about her hopeless son and his kindness to a midshipman—that moment of clarity was Anne’s alone, the product of her long history, and that she would not give up or give over to any sort of regret.

In that moment, any real envy floated away, lost to the evening out the window as the figures aboard the Laconia dissolved into the shadows of the Uppercross gardens.

Could an Anne truly envy a Dick, Henrietta, or even a Louisa? It seemed not, indeed.

With how sad steps, O moon, thou climb'st the
     skies!
How silently, and with how wan a face!
What! May it be that even in heavenly place
That busy archer his sharp arrows tries?
- "This Lady's Cruelty," Sir Philip Sidney

-

Heartache, Frederick found, smelled strongly of salt, tar, and hewn wood. It tasted of sharp onion, of gruel.

It was an easterly, cursed wind that blew hard and delayed a mission for days on end.

She had taken even the sea from him, it seemed. The freedom, the beauty. He cursed her for it, scrawled angry missives on the scant paper supplied him as an officer in His Majesty's Navy. Each one was thrown to the fish for their morning meal.

-

"I cannot marry you, Frederick."

The words did not register. She had to repeat them, and the tears that slipped down her face made him even more wretched.

"Is it your father? I will speak with him, Anne, I will tell him, I will promise...."

"And say what? You have few prospects. You...."

The reality began to sink in, weighing him down, an anchor on a shore he was increasingly anxious to leave. "I am what, then? Can you not say it? Does it repulse you so?"

"No, you know it does not! It has never mattered!"

"Hasn't it? Or why else allow yourself to be persuaded by their counsel?"

"I...Lady Russell is right. We would be foolish."

He scoffed. "Love is foolish, Anne! It knows little of reason. And all the duty it requires is loyalty."

She bowed her head and stifled a sob. His heart broke and he knelt before her, took her hands in his. "We can leave, now, together. Go to Gretna, and you...you can stay with my mother, she will understand, she will support us...."

Anne took her hands away from his, and cupped his face. It was the most intimate touch they had shared - he closed his eyes, allowed her touch to sear his memory.

"We cannot. I cannot."

And she walked away.

-

Storms at sea were more perilous, more frightening than battle. The young midshipmen quaked, some crying out for their mothers in the rolling, wet dark.

It was easy to forget, how those first storms had been for those who now served as officers, even those in command, until the deepest nights and loudest crashing waves took over. Senses overwhelmed, their forebearance broken, even the eldest and strongest were known to quiver and whimper the names of women, if not God himself.

It was in such a storm that Captain Frederick Wentworth found himself calling for Anne, seeking her embrace, knowing she would hold him up. And realizing, even in his seasick delirium, that she was not there and would never be.

He was surprised, come the calmer morning, with its west wind and bright sky, that he had not been lost at sea.

-

"And you are commander of your own ship, is that right?"

"Not quite, Lady Russell. I have been promised a ship but I do not know yet which vessel I will have the honor of taking to sea."

She nodded, and sipped her tea.

Anne sat beside her, and looked at her face every so often. She scarcely glanced at Frederick, whose palms were damp and whose heart beat irregularly. Anne had made out that Lady Russell was akin to a mother to her, and while Frederick had given up hope of making a favorable impression with Sir Walter, he thought he could make one here.

"Do you have any hope of returning, when you are sent away?"

She was blunt, Lady Russell. Anne looked at her wide-eyed, and paled. It was not a topic they had discussed, she and Frederick, and his heart sank at the very idea of broaching the subject with her.

"I have as much hope as any naval officer, I believe. There are perils at sea and in war, no doubt. But I would make every effort." He looked at Anne, willing her to meet his gaze, and she complied. "I would return, if there were something to return to."

Lady Russell, with a small frown, offered him more tea.

-

He did return, though there was nothing - no one - waiting for him on England's bright shores.

He had written, just once, asking her forgiveness for importuning her, and it was a bitter missive full of all the venom he felt she had gifted him with that last day. He did not know that the letter never reached Anne, that the unreliability of wartime correspondence would eventually prove a blessing.

"I hope, madam, that you will not look for me in lists or on the horizon, for I dare not believe that my name would bring you pleasure, nor my face pleasant memories. Indeed, you are wise, to turn away before you could find me altered beyond endurance. Do not suppose I am angry - only resigned, and bitterly so. Oh, Anne, if only...."

It had gone on to make less sense with every paragraph, and he felt all the injustice of it.

Until, that was, he saw her face, and saw there no regret, only impatience. No unrequited feelings, none of the spark from those heady days so long ago. Just dusty regard, the polite sort expected.

"I thought I heard that you had met the Elliott girls when you were last in Somerset, Captain Wentworth," said Mr. Musgrove over a glass of brandy.

"Only Miss Anne. I did not have the pleasure of your daughter-in-law's acquaintance. I believe she was at school, and Miss Elliott was regretably never able to accept an invitation to tea." He swallowed half his brandy, so much the better to burn the taste of her name from his throat, and stood to pour himself more.

His host hardly noticed. "We almost had an Anne Musgrove on these grounds. She turned Charles away, but we all did think for a time that it would be her who would break from the Elliott pride long enough to see the worth in my son."

Frederick winced. "I see."

"Never has married. We all do wonder, on occasion. Of course, my own girls have more life and vitality at their age, and are more likely to attract...well, there now, I've gone on too long and Mrs. Musgrove would scold me for it. This is none of your concern, and could not hold your interest. So tell me about Cape Horn, then, and your adventures against the French...."

And Frederick spun a tale of the West Indies sure to please even the most anxious papa of unmarried daughters, which distracted Musgrove, if not Frederick himself, from thoughts of Elliotts and their infernal pride.

-

He wanted to want Louisa Musgrove. Or Henrietta. Whichever. He was ready to be loved and celebrated and fawned over by chirping feminine voices.

Until he was. And the calm called him back, brown depths in which he could easily lose himself and find companionship once again.

But no, it was too late.

It was.

-

Love could revive. It could live again.

It may struggle against the brambles of bitter regret, of blame and self-loathing. But when the roots are deep, they may tap unknown resources, and love may flourish in the harshest conditions.

Like hellish hurricanes, and bloody war, and years of separation and disbelief.

 

-

"The one claim I shall make for my own sex is that we love longest, when all hope is gone."

How he longed to believe it!

Her countenance, in which he sought disinterest, was flush with passion. For what she said was clearly something she felt strongly, and her gaze slipped from Benwick's for the briefest moment to meet Frederick's. Modesty, perhaps, overcame her. Or was it simply regret at what she said, in his hearing?

He did not understand her.

Once, in the grove at the curate's cottage, on the paths between it and Kellynch, in stolen hours, amidst promises of fidelity, he thought he had.

At Uppercross, he felt justified in his efforts to forget, to purge her from his heart. At Lyme he was discovering he had failed utterly in his endeavor.

He would tell her. It was not only a woman's heart that loved long. That there was yet hope.

-

End

LADY RUSSELL REGRETS?

Lady Russell left Anne in the room her staff had begun to refer to as “Lady Elliot’s Room” when they thought she could not hear, and made her way to her own bed. She had dismissed her maid and her servants when Anne arrived; this was not the first time Anne had appeared at her home unannounced and unattended, but this night was different. It had been very late and Anne had been holding herself differently. Now, in the privacy of her rooms, she was horrified by the little she had seen when she had dressed Anne for bed. It had been a relief when she fell asleep and Lady Russell felt safe to leave her alone.

‘There is nothing to be done,” was all Anne would say initially.

Lady Russell could not believe it. Not at all. Anne had confronted that man years ago about Mrs. Clay. He promised that he would break with her. He promised! When Lady Russell had discovered this was not true, she confronted him concerning that woman. There was no need to keep Mrs. Clay from Walter Elliot; the man was dead and they had inherited!

This was not what she had hoped for Anne. Whatever happened tonight, she would not speak of some of it. All Lady Russell could get out of her was that William had called her barren. Five pregnancies, three children surviving until they were one year of age was not barren. How dare he? If anything, his refusal to call the surgeon that caused their deaths.

Lady Russell could not fall asleep and restlessly paced the room to the chimes of the clock. How could this have happened! He did not deserve the title of gentleman; let alone the title he now possessed. Why could women not inherit! She retracted that thought; Elizabeth would not be much of an improvement, at least as far as Anne was concerned.

Try as she could, there was not a comfortable position to be found in her bed. None.

At least this night Anne was safe. What could she do? She could not think of anything that would work. Anne’s father had been an idiot when it had come to the marriage contract, all because that man had offered to forgo a dowry if certain conditions were met. Her father jumped at that.

She was aware of the problem; she could have objected at the time. He seemed such a gentleman that she did not do so. Now Anne was here. How many times had she flown here to hide from his temper? Now Lady Russell wondered if the death of his first wife was due to her inability to run to someone.

As she looked out the window into the silvery moonlight making the garden look eerie, as it should this night. She realized she would have no rest as she looked out at the landscape. The bonfires for All Hallows Eve were out and the countryside was quiet; there was nothing to stop her from sitting in her garden.

The garden was enclosed with a bench close to the house; it would be safe. It would be cold under the gnarled old apple tree, so she bundled herself up against the elements.

As she moved down the stairs, she continued to think of Anne’s position. She could not divorce nor did she have the money to live separately from William. It was very unlikely such a man would make a settlement and let her go; such a disappointment.

Opening the library doors, she moved through the shadows. She settled herself down on the willow bench and looked up at the house. She could see her breath as she hissed at the light now in Anne’s window. What did he say to her this time? How could this be fixed?

Lady Russell sighed; there was nothing she could think of.

Suddenly she saw a movement to her right. When she glanced back, there appeared to be no one, but when she looked back at Anne’s window, she could swear there was a movement out of the corner of her eye.

This time when she turned back, she gasped. In the broken shadows of the apricot tree next to her was a man. Not just any man, but a man in a uniform. Instantly, she knew that it was Fredrick Wentworth looking up at Anne’s window.

Fredrick Wentworth was in her garden!

She had read his exploits, as she knew that Anne did, in the Gazette. He had given up a ship of the line to stay a captain of a frigate. He was not the only one to do such a thing, but she had thought it vulgar that he wanted to turn down such an honour to collect prize money. He continued to stay aboard ship after the war. Now he was stationed in North Africa with the ability to collect money from capturing slave ships. She had taken that as a sign he was constantly out of funds. Even she knew that most men did not stay so long aboard ship, once they had made their fortunes. She had not felt guilty at all about what she had done at Bath. Now….

“Captain Wentworth, what are you doing here?”

His silhouette was broken by the shadows; she noticed that he did not start when she spoke to him. Perhaps he had seen her come out.

She began to rise.

“Do stay where you are Lady Russell.”

The statement was a command, though the voice was not harsh.

“What are you doing in my garden Captain Wentworth?”

“I have come to check on Anne.”

“Captain Wentworth, that is not your-“

“I came to make sure she was safe and secure. Imagine my surprise when I discovered she was not at Kenellch.”

Lady Russell’s mind scrambled trying to think of what to say to the man who would not have treated her Anne so badly.

“Then imagine my surprise to discover that Mrs. Clay is in Anne’s home while Anne was at yours.”

Lady Russell was perfectly still. This was it. That man had moved his mistress into Anne’s home; as a companion? How dare that man! Her mind tried to work on a solution, but there was nothing to do in public without causing a scandal.

She saw his face turn very slightly from the window towards her. “What can you do to protect Anne?”

“I have spoken to him in the past. Perhaps you could-“

“I cannot do that, Lady Russell.”

“Cannot or will not.”

“I cannot, Lady Russell. Her position would be much worse if a man, wholly unrelated to her, spoke to her husband in such a way. Her position is very precarious, do you not agree?”

She was silent and thought before she spoke again.

“I would give anything to change the past, Captain. I know it cannot be done, but if you could just….”

“Just do what, Lady Russell?”

Her voice cracked, “Perhaps,….scare him. I know it is not the gentlemanly thing to do, but she could go back home and be safe.”

“Do you really believe that would work, or do you just wish to avoid a scandal?”

She could understand what was behind the question. “I realize what you must think of me…..”

“No, Lady Russell. You could not risk something so precious to a man who could die in a time of war. That I can understand. You must be very persuasive for her to break the engagement. That I also, grudgingly, understand.”

He stopped as though to get a grip on his emotions.

“When I returned, I then lost the finest woman there was for me through my own blindness. I am responsible for ….”

His voice trailed off as he looked back at the light. His upper body was in the shadows, but she could see the tenseness of his posture. Lady Russell now had a choice. She had to be honest as to just how terribly sorry she was about everything she had done.

“No. You do not know why I truly would give anything to change the past.” She took a deep breath before she restarted in a rush, “I knew. I knew in Bath that you had made an offer again. Mr. Elliot had made clear that he wanted Anne, and that would make her mistress of Kenellch. I could not have you take her away from her home. I had to keep you away. I insisted she come to my home when she just wanted to fly to you. I had to keep her….I tripped her."

All that could be heard was her ragged breath. “The apothecary told her that she had to stay. She implored me to go to her home and to tell you that all was well…..”

“You chose not to do so.”

“After which you chose to leave.”

“With my heart already broken, it did not react to reading the announcement in the Times. I wished her well. Now we are both outside her window.”

“I would give any-“

“This of all nights, madam, you should not say such things! Even you should know that!”

She was shocked at his vehemence. Whatever did he mean?

“I do not know how I am here, Lady Russell; so I would ask that you be careful what you say.” His voice had returned to its previous calm tone. He moved slightly. She realized that he appeared to be adjusting himself to stay in the broken shadow of the trees as the moon moved in the deep blue sky. This was curious for such a man, and she was going to ask about it when he spoke again.

“I can only believe I am here due to the couple we found at sea. You must listen to me, and have a care with your speech. My ship found a father and daughter aboard a dingy. Even in times of war, such a thing would have been unusual, but this was not such an occasion. There was not a battle, there was no debris, and there was nothing to indicate the ship they had been aboard.

“We rescued them. The men, even the most superstitious of them, said nothing since they had obviously been exposed to the elements for some time. The surgeon looked at them and requested assistance.” She could sense he was debating telling her something. “I called two of the tars. They predated me on the ship, but the surgeon and I both knew the couple consisted of a ‘he’ who was a woman and the man helped her keep her secret.”

Lady Russell could not resist an objection. “A woman serving aboard ship…”

“Such things happen, Lady Russell. What would you have a capable poor woman do? She made her way in the world and did so very well.”

“I had spoken to her, since I was concerned. The man was going to marry her, so she would leave the ship when there was sufficient money.” Again there was a pause with the ghost of a smile on his lips. “She had been on station in North Africa, searching of slavers longer than I had been. I had no quarrel with her work; she was needed since it was neither a popular nor pleasant duty. The child looked to be no more than 11 years of age and was in very bad shape, I was grateful to have ‘him’ to look after her. Everyone on board was concerned about what could be done to snatch them from the jaws of death.

“The man awoke and called to see me. He thanked me for all our courtesy to them. I tried to tell him it was nothing, we were lucky to find them. When I told him that I had done the best I could by his daughter; he just looked at me, and told me that he knew that to be true. He then discussed a person’s responsibilities to those they love regardless of the distance or the obstacles. I refrained from asking him questions about the ship on which they had been traveling since he was so weak. He fell asleep while demanding to know if I understood him.

“The next day they died; first the girl and then her father not long afterward. I felt it was a blessing that he had not awoken to be told the news. We buried them at sea, everyone working to given them as much honour as we could under the circumstances. I even checked that the….job was done properly. The stitching was especially pointed out to me for the girl. Our sailmaker wanted to honour her youth, and had made special stitches for her since his sister had taught him embroidery.”

“The morning after, the watch discovered the dingy had disappeared. There was no sign of it or how it could have gone overboard. On the next watch, at the place the dingy had been, were found the empty burial bags. There was no mistaking them.

“It was obvious that the bags had not been touched even though the contents was not there; removed with nary a cut to the canvas.

“Needless to say the crew was….shaken after such an experience. That day we came across our quarry, a slaver we had been hunting for over a week. We took it and did not sustain a death, which is almost impossible under such circumstances. Afterward, the crew decided a favor had been returned and did not speak of it.”

Captain Wentworth stopped. “Now I am here.”

That did not make any sense to Lady Russell. None at all.

The Captain went on. “After that conversation, I arranged for the bulk of my estate to go to my sister with my brother as trustee. If anything were to happen to her, the funds would go to my brother. I wrote both of them that, if necessary, the funds were to be used to support a friend of mine. One never knows who reads one’s letters, but I thought I had made my meaning clear.” At this Lady Russell sensed that he stopped himself from turning to look at her. “Both my siblings managed to send letters to me. My sister said she was looking for a companion, but the search was tedious so she would wait for the right person to be sent to her through friends. My brother wrote much the same about his wife.”

“I do not understand-“

“If you can arrange for Anne to be taken, discreetly, somewhere so that my brother, the Admiral, could take charge of her, he will take her into his home as a “paid companion” for my sister. Should my sister’s circumstances change, my brother and his wife will take her in. She will always have a safe home.”

Lady Russell did not know what to make of this proposal. The Captain had thought of Anne, but thinking that she turn her back on everything and throw herself on the mercy of strangers; there had to be a better course of action.

“You do not approve.”

“You would have her give up everything she knows.”

“I would have her go to people who I know would care for her.”

“If she were to throw her life away, what would you do, Captain Wentworth? As much as I now wish you had married Anne at the time of your betrothal, surely you can see that your presence would make such an arrangement impossible for her.”

He stood for a moment and then slightly shifted so that he was in less of the shadows. Lady Russell could see that he had obviously ridden hard since his uniform was stained from exertion.

“You obviously do not understand, Lady Russell.”

She began to wonder, looking at his blue coat that appeared gray black in the moon’s light. Grey black for the coat and black for the stains.

“My ship engaged The Raven, a slave ship we had been chasing for over a fortnight, October 31 at 3 PM.”

Her mind registered what he was saying, as she disbelieved it.

“In the heat of battle, I was wounded and taken below deck. My men are very good, Lady Russell; Mr. Markham is a good commander and they took The Raven not long afterward.

“Now I am here.”

He continued to look up at Anne’s window. Lady Russell removed herself from her bench and moved toward him trying to think of something to say so this insane man would stay away from Anne.

“Stay where you are Lady Russell.”

She was not about to do that and as she closed the distance, he gradually turned towards her. How could he order her in her own-.

The sound of her words choking in her throat surely could be heard in the house, she thought distantly as she looked at the destruction of the front of the coat and the brim of his hat. He did not fully turn to her so as to leave the other side of his face in shadow. As she stared Lady Russell thought it would be a miracle if there was actually an arm under the layers fabric.

The lips on the side of his face she could see turned up slightly. “I can only imagine what I look like, and I did not wish to frighten Anne.”

He had attempted to keep her at bay, she had caused him to reveal a bit of himself to her. Lady Russell backed away.

“Promise me that you will send an express to my sister today, regardless of what you think of tonight’s events.” She could say nothing. He turned slight more towards her. It was enough for her to awaken her from her shock and gasp. “I will. I promise.”

“You’ll need find a way to get her safely to them without his knowledge. The Admiral is a very capable man who can help you with that part.”

He was looking at Anne’s window again. Without a word to her, he began to walk to the house. When she looked up, she saw there was no light in Anne’s window. When she looked back to the Captain he was disappearing into the shadows surrounding the house.

Without thought as to what she would do, Lady Russell ran to Anne’s room. She had the sense not to burst through the door; whether it was to allow Anne to continue to sleep or to try to surprise Captain Wentworth, even she did not know.

When she entered, all was as it should be in the room. She could smell a recently gutted candle as she moved closer to the bed. The person dearest to her in all the world was finally asleep. Anne’s borrowed gown had pulled away from her. Lady Russell looked down at the bruises on the small neck. Anne could do nothing against such a man.

Very gently she put her hand out to move a few stray hairs out of Anne’s face. The dear girl did not move. Lady Russell knew she must be exhausted.

“I would give anything to see you married to the better man. I am so sorry my dear,” she whispered to the lady’s unhearing ears.

With the slightest of sighs, she returned very quietly to her rooms. She did not immediately go to bed, but lit her own candle and moved to her desk. The letters were written to both brother and sister. She believed she knew where both were to be found. How to move Anne to where she could…..On this Lady Russell had no opinion. Anything that came to her mind, ended with Lord Elliot showing up on a doorstep and demanding his wife while accompanied by her “companion”. In each letter she asked for assistance in bringing the candidate for the position to their homes for an interview.

“I would do anything to see Anne happy. Anything.” she said to herself. She would need to rely on others for that now. There was nothing she could do. As much as she may wish it, there was no going back to change her original error, nor any of the errors after that first one. With these thoughts she fell into a restless sleep.

The next morning she awoke in her bed later than usual for her. She felt remarkably refreshed considering her restless night. When she threw off the covers, she discovered it was much warmer than she would have expected for the season. When she looked at the grate, there was no fire. Very curious! Then she looked at her side table and did not see the letters. She was sure she not left them at her desk?

The window with the view of her bench and the fruit trees seemed to beckon her with its rays of sun streaming through; casting aside all the shocks of the early morning.

Until she looked out the window to behold her garden in spring bloom. The apricot and apple both in full bloom, as they had been every spring for all the years of her tenancy.

She stared in astonishment at the sight, unsure if she had really awoken! Then a man and a woman walked out into the sunshine from underneath the blooms of the fruit trees. It was Anne and Captain Wentworth. She was about to hurry dressing so that she could confront the Captain about his cruel joke when she noticed Anne’s attire. Modest as always, but it was not the dress of a matron. It was the dress of a young woman. Captain Wentworth’s uniform was not the one she saw last night. She would say that it was the one when he came for his first visit. Lady Russell recalled standing at this window when she first realized that Anne was in danger of following her heart.

She stood at the window, trying to remember what she had seen before and if it matched now. What was she to do? Surely there would be someone to see to this matter? She now knew why the Captain had cautioned her last night. Still she could not bring herself regret as she looked down at the young lovers.

As Lady Russell contemplated what to do, her maid entered with a tea tray. Lady Russell did not turn as Letty moved to her bed. Lady Russell decided she did not want to see.

When she heard Letty drop the tray and began to scream that the mistress was dead, Lady Russell decided that her bench might be a more restful place to wait.

Finis

"Where will you live, when he has frittered away the last of his prize money? In Portsmouth, my dear? Can you not see how improper that should be?" 

Lady Russel's admonitions rolled upon Anne's hearing like the waves before a storm, or the manner she believed such waves must be - dark and terrifying if only bearing a fraction of the menace they would soon unleash upon the unsuspecting land. Anne clenched her hands together, looked out the frost-rimmed glass to the hoary meadows and bare trees, beyond them to where the sea must inevitably be, brilliant and cold. 

"I will be with him, or wait for him," Anne said, her quiet resolve sounding ever more like desperation. "Either way, I shall learn to live upon the sea." 




Winter has yielded to spring, springtime to summer, and the waves of the hills are a lush, verdant green. In her heart, their counterparts upon the ocean are often grey, robbed of brilliance and color. Her heart is little given to sunshine and merriment, since Frederick - no, Lieutenant Wentworth - departed Kellynch and her wavering. The sea should seem a paragon of stability, she imagines, compared to her inconstancy. 

Her hands now have something besides each other to cling to, though she imagines the delicate muslin hankerchief in their grasp should tear should she hold it any tighter. It was one of his few gifts, one she did not show even Lady Russel for fear she would further condemn it as proof of his insuitability. 

Sailors may be a poor lot, but at least we do return home fraught with love and presents, he had told her, pressing the cloth into her hand. Told her of how the women in Santo Domingo made a great crown of hankerchiefs to wear upon their heads, of the sweet-smelling breezes that told of the island long before it could even be seen, of the cannons thundering and flashing enough for Guy Fawkes. 

What joy, such a victory, she had replied, breathless at his exploits and his modesty in recounting them yet anxious for the prospect of future triumphs. But there is scarce anything left of Napoleon's navy - do you not worry the chance for glory may grow scarce? 

I think I could learn to content myself with a different sort of glory, he had answered, and Anne blushed, for she knew he did not speak of battles at all. 

She thought upon these words, these exchanges, rather than their last, though she knows she has wasted too much time upon this windowsill, lingering on a sight only she can see. 

"Anne! Really, you think someone had died!" Elizabeth's boisterous voice interrupted her reverie, and Anne turned, clutching the hankerchief to her chest. "And besides, it was you that rejected him - and he's a sailor! He's scarcely worth this mooning about." 

Elizabeth clasped her hands, pulled her up, and Anne yielded, if only because she did not wish to be thought a burden. For she could scarcely leave the hall to her father and sister, whose extravagent dress was one Anne had not yet seen, and was therefore likely another expense they could scarcely afford. 

"We shall find you a more proper match - an army officer! They've much finer uniforms than that blue drab stuff, and they're far better dancers and it is so much more sensible for them to have money and then a commission then a commission and possibly no money at all...." 

Wentworth had a very uncertain prospect of further fortune, and nearly leaden feet, but he had one thing, painfully unknown, that no man should likely thereafter have. 

Her heart, surely as if it had taken the King's shilling and left her, forlorn upon the quay, watching as he and the fragile, trembling thing in his unknown keeping vanished away into nothingness. 


 

Anne has learned to live upon the sea, but not in the manner she quite suspected. 

It is an easy enough task, in some respects.  While her father loses yet another hand of whist and Elizabeth begs Mary to play something more lively and Mary complains that her hands ache something dreaful Anne can cast aside her familial burden in the Navy List, a wistful smile upon her lips as she sees his name creep yet higher. Lady Russell enquires politely why she should subject herself to such useless torment, but if Anne could not give him the happiness of marriage, she desires him to have at least the comfort that rank and reputation should provide. 

Other lanes of enquiry are more troublesome, and it is only the generosity of Sir Sidney Gillespie, a patriotic neighbor who subscribes to the Naval Chronicles and doesn't chide her overmuch for reading his Gentleman's Magazine, that her mind can be loosed upon the oceans. It drifts upon the Mediterranean, hovers over the chill of the Baltic, even around the Cape and into the East Indies. She cannot say where Wentworth and her forsaken heart may be, but in her dreams she can fix them surer than any Admiralty Chart. 

But another winter passes, and then another, and these imaginings grow more painful to bear. Wentworth was made first of the Bellerephon some months back, and she can leave him fastened there, and she must find a way to think of him no longer, or think upon him less. He will make captain, and then post, whether she should be mindful or not, and no matter where on the globe he may be, she knows his course shall one day lead him home, to England, and to a woman who shall return his affections and any offers that may result without hesitation. 

The only comfort she can find, Anne thinks, as she closes her biography of Nelson yet another time, for they can no longer even afford the subscription library, is that this course will never come near her, nor Kellnych, again. 


 

How limited her mind was, that could not envisage such a deep blue, nearly the color of wine. She pulled her brim down, grateful for the awning Frederick had rigged on the quarterdeck for her benefit. His was a fine ship, a trim little frigate, the Calliope, on the Mediterranean Squadron, under a firm yet kindly admiral who looked askance at wives, even if his generosity was less enthusiastic when it came to sweethearts. 

"I can scarce put such beauty into words - how is it that your logbook should not be pure poetry?" Wentworth smiles at her question, his sun-darkened visage one of pure mirth and delight. 

"I doubt the Admiralty should delight in my verses, and despite your confidence, I am a poor poet," he replies, utterly at ease amidst the the bustle of the dog watch. There is a packet, just over the horizon, and his reports - and their letters to friends and family at Kellynch and Bath - have joined an ever growing collection of such correspondence, waiting to be borne home. "But if ever I should have to serve without you, I shall try to make up for my lack." 

They touch hands, if only for a moment, and Anne delights in the contact that is a rare delight in the day, and another sort of delight altogether on those calm nights the frigate can be entrusted to his capable and affable officers. "I should wait every day for your letters - and send you more than you should ever wish to read," she says, inclining her head. "I imagine it must be lonely, to be without one's family." 

"Amidst 180 souls? Oh, my dear," Wentworth says, in such a tone that Anne knows he should kiss her were it not for the impropriety of doing so on the sancrosanct quarterdeck, "lonely is perhaps not quite the term, but we do miss you, greatly. Even without letters..." 

He pauses, and Anne is unsure if he will continue with his thought, but after a moment's gaze upon the water, he turns to her. "Even after the first proposal, I could not help, at times, but think upon you, and no matter our heading, I knew precisely what course I should take that would bring me back to you, as if the heart needed no compass or chronometer to know where it should be. And should we be parted now, I know my love, written or unwritten, should traverse any ocean to find you." 

Anne nods, emotion nearly rendering her mute, but she can at least murmur "As would mine," quiet yet as heartfelt as Wentworth's declaration, wind and water carrying them both, together, into whatever may be.

There is always noise on the ship, constant and regular like the ticking of a clock and it runs the same. Bells and whistles to keep all aware of the hour and events, and it never stops, even in the heart of battle. There is a comfort in it, that constant drone, which reminds him that despite all that he has left behind, he is not alone.

Tonight though the noise grates on his nerves, plucking at the strings of his control like a knife through rope, rending the twisted vines of it until it all unravels. Tonight, as they celebrate in the lower decks drunk on rum and fresh supplies, he hears every noise as a shout when he expects a whisper. He knows the men are not to blame, for they do nothing they have not done a thousand times. No the blame for this lies at the feet of a woman, as inconstant and vicious as the sea.

It does him no good to think on her, but he cannot help himself. There was something about the day – the sun glinting off the water or the curve of the wax dripping down the candle – that reminded him of her, something that brought her to mind and still refuses to release him. She lingers like the taste of wine on his tongue or the surge of energy that fills him after a battle. All are bound to sour eventually, turn to a hangover come morning or the lethargy that leaves him drained and every watch endless waiting.

The pen rasps against the paper, dark ink bleeding tiny sunbursts around each word. He scrawls the date atop the paper, his head swimming with all the things that are proper to say and the few he can manage even now after all these years.

Those few words that remain are like ash on his tongue, sacrilege to speak the mixture of truth and lies that come down only to polite society and the very real assurance that whatever his thoughts, hopes and desires had been, they are now forgotten, giving way in the none-so-gentle dismissal laid down by Sir Walter and Lady Russell, telling Anne of what was proper, and not what was honest.

“My darling Anne.” He whispers, his pen moving of its own accord.

Miss Elliott,

“Ages and eons seem to have passed since we parted, fate and Napoleon forcing such distance between us, though none more so than that forced between us by your friend, Lady Russell, and your father, both assuring you that I am nothing to look forward to in a husband, lacking a fortune and property that one needs to be pursuant of a wife.”

I hope this letter finds you well, that your family prospers and looks forward, as do we all, to peace.

“My love of the sea grows less gripping by the day. It is agonizing to know you are only a short ride away and yet to find myself incapable of the journey and so much the worse by being deprived of you, my Anne.”

We are all in a mind for peace, though the hope of it seems both false and faint.

He has counted off the distance in his head, how far a ride for him to reach Kellynch hall, measured it in leagues and miles, hours and minutes. He burns to sit astride a horse and let the wind hit him, whip his coat like loosened sails so he can see Anne once again. He needs to see her to steel himself against her, to remind his foolish, reckless heart that she was turned from him, persuaded to refuse him. What he believed love was nothing then and nothing now, save the broken promise of a young girl looking for better than what he could give her.

“Were it but true, Anne, that you loved me, that you wished for us to be married, how I would rue these days at sea; instead I find myself wanting more miles of water between us, wanting something to keep me from battering my heart and emotions on the surety of your refusal of me.”

Take care, Miss Elliot, until we see each other again.

He stares at the paper, covered with words he does not feel in the slightest, lies to deny emotion that he will not risk again. He reads them, silly and unnecessary, speaking of nothing in his heart or his mind. They are as empty and hollow as he feels. He crumples the paper in his fist, a huff of repressed anger and frustration parting his lips. He crosses the ward room and disposes of the paper, tearing it to small shreds that line the bottom of the wastebasket.

He stares out at the water, inhaling the salt tinged breeze laced with the acrid smell of smoke. Somewhere distant is his heart, beating uselessly for one who does not want it, refusing to give up, even when all is lost.

There was a light knock on the door.

The candle flickered as the door cracked open but did not wither.

"There's a storm coming, m' captain." The boy looked uneasy to be disturbing him, but his eyes remained firmly on him.

"I shall be coming out in a moment," said Captain Wentworth, putting away the pen in his hand. He carefully set aside the letter he was writing under the nearby book. As he stood up, he cast one last glance to the unfinished epistle. Clear, even in the dim light, were the beloved words: Dearest Anne.

Dearest Anne,

I am writing this letter near -----. Our plan is to reach the harbour tomorrow, so I can post this; tomorrow! Then it will be just three weeks till we meet again, my Anne, and I shall not leave you for a second time. I am constantly thinking about you, sitting in your preferred chair by the window, with your favourite book on your lap, almost forgotten, while you look out at the street.

I can picture you right now, protesting that you could never give up such a noble occupation for idle inspection of the pedestrians. Fear not, my dear, your momentary lapses of concentration make you even more endearing to me, and my teasing you makes me feel closer to you, now that we are separated. I would never admit it to anyone but you, but my sister and Admiral Croft were right. I do wish you were here with me. I would gladly subject you to the hardships of sea-life in order to see you every day. I know it is not possible now, but maybe, after our daughter has arrived...

(Yes, I know you do not want me to make such presumptions. I am taking advantage of the fact that you cannot reprimand me at the moment.)

I specifically felt the need for you to be here last night. Do you remember that sunset in Lyme? How we stood at the edge of the water and you quoted

The gentleness of heaven is on the sea:
Listen! the mighty Being is awake,
And doth with his eternal motion make
A sound like thunder -everlastingly.

It was like I could hear you again last evening. You would appreciate the terrible and tranquil beauty of the ocean surrounding us. I had never noticed the colours of the afternoon sky before, which you so eloquently pointed out to me; without even saying a word. Oh, I knew about striking sunsets, however I had never appreciated nature's true glory through them. You opened my eyes to them, as you have done to many other things. Yesterday, it was all clear to me; the heavy clouds, the grey of the waves as they crashed at the sides of the ship, the sound of the thunder booming above us. You made me see it for the first time with your eyes and I almost turned around to converse with you about it. You were not there but at least I have this letter to write and soon, my dear, we will be together again.--

I am writing to you now, almost a day after I wrote my last paragraph early yesterday evening. Cook came in just after I had finished my sentence and informed me about a storm. Do not worry; isn't the fact that I am continuing this letter proof enough that I am safe? Storms and smugglers are, alas, part of a sailor's life; and the life of a sailor's wife by association, even though I wish I could spare you. I am not going to insult your intelligence, though, and pretend that these incidents do not occur.

The storm came by, the ship, as I always knew she would, stayed firm, we lowered the vanes and coasted for a while and that was it. Not a soul was harmed.

What I would really want to discuss with you is that boy Cook. You remember what I told you about him the last time I was on shore. I am pleased to say I am making progress with him. He seems more confident now and actually seeks the company of his fellows. I still cannot be sure what was done to this kid to make him so scared when he got here. I have my theories; I have told you about them. The scar on his arm could be telling. It does not matter now. The kid is improving. I feel I must be doing something right. I also must add, my dearest, that I feel so blessed that I can trust you with my inner thoughts; whether they are about my men or our life together.

I shall finish this letter now since we are nearing -----. I shall go to the post immediately hoping you shall receive this quickly. I shall be thinking about you, Anne, and be certain that soon I shall be with you.

Your faithful
F.W.

Anne Wentworth sat in her favourite chair, in her preferred corner of the drawing room right near the window, her hand lightly resting on her abdomen. The candles, scattered around the room, cast dancing shadows on the walls, but she had eyes only for the letter in her other hand. A smile lingered on her face while she was reading the beloved words for a second time.

She sighed as she reached the last line. Soon I shall be with you. It would not be soon enough. She chastised herself for being so unreasonable, but, sometimes, she could not escape her fears. She was sensible. After all, her husband had survived a war, and his current occupation, working against smuggling, could not be as dangerous. She wondered if it was the sign of love that she sometimes felt so afraid for him and sometimes so certain that nothing could happen to him. That somehow he was destined to come back to her and no one could take him away from her.

Her attention wandered to the street outside as it was fading into darkness. The street, which would bring him back to her. She traced the words with her fingertips and settled to read the letter for a third time.

As soon as he entered Mrs Charles Musgrove's drawing-room, Captain Wentworth heartily wished himself anywhere else in the world. He had expected to find Mrs Charles within, and the Miss Musgroves, attending on the injured little boy; but instead there was only the little boy himself, and Anne Elliot.

Too startled at finding himself alone, or nearly alone, with Anne to do or say what was proper, he heard himself stammer, "I thought the Miss Musgroves had been here: Mrs Musgrove told me I should find them here …"

"They are upstairs with my sister; they will be down in a few moments, I dare say," Anne replied, in a tone of confused dismay. He saw her eyes dart toward the door.

"Aunt Anne!" called the little boy, and she hurried toward him.

Angry half with himself for his want of wits, and half with her by habit, Captain Wentworth turned away, and stepped to the drawing-room window to recollect himself. He had thought himself able to be near her, even to speak to her, with perfect insouciance; was he to lose his composure now, merely for lack of anyone else for either of them to speak to?

"I hope the little boy is better," he said at length. He was now able with some effort to adopt a tone of calm politeness; but he was not sorry when Anne, busy about the child, made him no reply.

The sound of the door opening came as a great relief to him, and he turned almost eagerly to speak to the newcomer, though it proved to be not the Miss Musgroves at all, but their cousin – Hayter, yes, that was the man's name. "How d'you do, sir? A fine day, is not it?"

But Hayter, who wore the look of one oppressed by some strong irritation of spirits, repulsed his attempts at conversation by the expedient of walking to the other end of the room, and taking up the newspaper that lay upon the table; and Captain Wentworth, for want of anything else to do, that did not involve addressing Anne Elliot, returned to his window.

There very quickly came again the sound of the door, and again he turned: but again the newcomer was not the Miss Musgroves. Instead he beheld Mrs Charles's younger son, toddling forward determinedly with a glad cry of "Aunty!"

He would not watch them, would not even seem to watch them; it was distressing to him to see her with these children, though he would not understand why this should be so. Still he must hear the smaller boy's piping voice, the elder's protesting in rising tones, and Anne kindly but firmly representing to the former that he must not tease his sick brother, and should not be let stay in the room with him if he persisted.

A few moments' quiet ensued; and then Captain Wentworth heard Anne's voice again, oddly muffled, in tones of increasing vexation – "Walter, do get down!" – and looked round to find that the child had climbed upon her back, flung his arms about her neck and bent down her head. Despite the noise they were making, and Anne's very evident need of help, Charles Hayter did not look up from his newspaper.

"Walter!" said Anne at last, "get down this moment. You are extremely troublesome. I am very angry with you."

The newspaper rustled; and "Walter!" Charles Hayter cried, "Why do you not do as you are bid? Do not you hear your aunt speak?" Severity availing him nothing, he changed his tone, held out his arms and said cajolingly, "Come to me, Walter! Come to cousin Charles."

The little boy however, had evidently no intention of being dissuaded from his game.

The man had no sense at all—or else no manners, thought Captain Wentworth, irritated by the fellow's lack of action. Very well then: he must do it himself, though it was hardly his place – he scarcely knew the child! – and a pretty mess they should be in, if it should take fright and begin howling.

Two strides brought him to Anne's side; he bent down to her, caught the little boy under the arms as one might grab at a young midshipman seeking to escape into the shrouds, swept him up into the air and bore him away. It was the work of a moment; and though the little boy gave a gasp of surprise, he afterward seemed not at all discomposed at his sudden translation, regarding it perhaps as all part of the game.

Little Walter was not such a very dreadful child, Captain Wentworth decided, enjoying the little boy's shouts of delight as he was tossed into the air and caught again, and swung to and fro by his ankles. It was his misfortune to be the namesake of such an empty-headed popinjay as Sir Walter Elliot, but one might hope he had inherited more of his father's energy and good sense than of his mother's pride and fractious temper. How Anne could bear with her sister so patiently …! He could not have done it; but the influence of family was very strong with her, as he had cause to know.

"Again! Again!" cried little Walter, and Captain Wentworth obediently hoisted him up once more. Out of the corner of his eye he saw Anne still bending over young Charles, petting and soothing her young patient in what seemed to him a deliberate effort not to be spoken to by anybody else. Well, he had certainly no wish to speak to her, for the matter of that.

"Why, Captain Wentworth!" Here were the Miss Musgroves at last, and Mrs Charles Musgrove with them. The bustle of "How do you do?"s and bows and welcomes, of exclamations over the children, of surprise at meeting him here, occupied several minutes; and when next Captain Wentworth glanced that way, Anne had gone, and Charles Hayter was looking at Miss Musgrove with a dissatisfied air, which she seemed determined not to remark.

"We are just going for a walk together," said Louisa; "you will join us, Captain Wentworth, will not you?"

"Oh! certainly," said he, with a ready smile; such sweet girls the Miss Musgroves were! how they chattered and laughed together! – it was a pleasure to be with them, and quite distracted one from melancholy and irritation of spirit. "I should like it of all things. Tell me, where do we go to-day?"

You will do it, Frederick, will you not? Harville had written. You will go and break the news to him, and help him to bear it? There is no one else whom I should entrust with such a commission; and though you may justly name me a coward, I freely confess that I cannot undertake it myself …

It was an ugly errand, indeed – Wentworth could ill imagine a more wretched one, though it had been his duty many a time to write to wives and parents and sisters with the grim news of a man's death at sea, or, worse, a boy's. A sailor's wife, or a sailor's betrothed, must live with the dread of hearing such news; it must shock and distress, but cannot altogether surprise her; but Benwick—! There was not the least chance that he should be in any way prepared for such an event. Wentworth approached the Grappler with a dread in his heart, such as he had never felt at approaching even the most fearsome French ship of the line.

"Captain Benwick, sir?" piped a midshipman, no more than fourteen years old, in answer to Wentworth's hail. "What name, sir?"

"Wentworth, of the Laconia," Wentworth replied. "I must speak with him as soon as may be."

"Aye, sir!" The midshipman's face vanished from the starboard rail; and no more than a minute later was replaced by Benwick's, beaming with joy and pride in his new command. It smote Wentworth's heart to see him.

"Why, Wentworth!" Benwick called down to him in open-hearted welcome. "Will you come aboard? She is a beauty, is not she? —though you will say she is not the equal of the Laconia. I am on fire to show her to Fanny – I have written to bid her come – do not you think—"

Wentworth had not meant to give the least hint of his errand until he should have got his friend belowdecks, into the privacy of the captain's cabin; but something in his face perhaps betrayed his distress at this eager mention of Fanny – or perhaps it was only that his person, on examination, bore the signs of his nearly unbroken journey down from Plymouth – for Benwick's expression at once took on a look of wary dismay.

"I will come aboard, I thank you," he said; "I have news which cannot wait."

It was a dreadful interview; more dreadful even than all Wentworth's dire imaginings, on the road to Portsmouth. Fanny Harville had been a very superior creature, a woman of such intelligence, fortitude, and good sense as might alone have made a proper match for James Benwick – and very handsome, besides; a woman almost the equal even of— But Wentworth would not think of her: that was all over, and not to be thought of.

For the present, here was poor Benwick: and a man more broken by grief, more unequal for the moment to bearing that grief alone, could scarcely have been imagined. His face was ashen; his eyes stared wide and unseeing, and his hand trembled as he clutched at Wentworth's sleeve.

"But Fanny is safe ashore," he said, in a tone blank and uncomprehending; "she cannot … you cannot mean Fanny …"

"It was a fever," said Wentworth patiently, for perhaps the third time; "the influenza. I am sorry, James – more sorry than I can say– it is but too true. It was two months ago, and indeed there can be no mistake."

And on it went, almost past bearing, until at length grief and brandy combined to put Benwick to sleep, and Wentworth stripped him of his coat and boots and tipped him into bed.

I have broke the news to him, Wentworth wrote to Harville that night, by the light of a candle in the captain's cabin of the Grappler; he bears it very ill, I fear. I cannot blame him – such a blow, at such a time! – but he ought not to be left alone. Do not be uneasy, however: for I wrote up for leave of absence before coming away from Plymouth, that I might be free to stay some days with him, should there be need; and I am determined to do so …

He had not waited the answer to his request for leave; but he should not trouble Harville with that worry: the poor man had enough to bear.

He had himself had no sleep to speak of, since quitting Plymouth two days since; instead of seeking a berth or a hammock, however, he sat staring into the dimness. To think that he had so lately envied Benwick his good fortune! —indeed, Benwick had bid fair to be blessed with both Wentworth's luck at sea, and Harville's domestic happiness on shore; and though he trusted he had given no hint of his feelings, Wentworth had envied them both that happiness. He was sorry for it now. Perhaps indeed he was the lucky one: his heart had been broken already – she had broken it, had put her faith in anyone rather than in him – and he knew better, now, than to give it again into the keeping of any woman.

And yet – and perhaps Wentworth, too, had had more brandy than was good for him – what would not he have given at this moment, to imagine her waiting for him somewhere, perhaps even now journeying to meet him—

"No!" he said aloud, thumping a fist upon the table. Benwick stirred and muttered in his sleep. "No," Wentworth repeated, more quietly; "she is not worth thinking of; she gave me up, she yielded to persuasion, when she might have trusted me and held firm; she is not worth regretting."

But regret her he did, in some corner of his proud, resentful, angry heart; and regretting her – her gentle voice, her mild dark eyes, her intelligence and good sense, and the perfect understanding which had once been between them – he at length laid his head upon the table, and went to sleep.

Captain Wentworth stared at Benwick's letter in an astonishment so complete, as to deprive him for some minutes of the power of speech.

James Benwick, engaged to Louisa Musgrove! It could not be! – and yet the thing was certainly true; he had read the letter through three times, and there was no doubting its import, though Benwick in his overflowing enthusiasm might err on the side of poetical language rather than of good, clear, seamanlike prose.

Yet … Benwick, whom they had so lately despaired of in his grief for Fanny Harville – the clever and well-read and courageous Fanny Harville – Benwick, a man of such depth of thought and feeling – to attach himself to Louisa Musgrove? Captain Wentworth could as easily imagine such a thing, as imagine himself so attached.

It seemed, in short, a thing impossible to be believed.

Captain Wentworth had not attained his present state of comparative prosperity, however, by scrupling to seize his chance where it was offered. And though he could not but fear that Benwick had (as Admiral Croft might have put it) spread altogether too much canvas in this affair, had engaged his honour before giving sober thought to the consequences, nor could he deny that it was not concern for his friend's happiness that dominated his thoughts at this moment: no – the thought now uppermost in his mind wore quite another aspect.

Anne.

"I will be at Bath on Wednesday," he said aloud, to no one in particular, his mind already racing through the necessary arrangements to be made. A horse – or the post-chaise? – lodgings in Bath – he must write to Sophia directly – clothes and effects to be packed—

"I beg your pardon, Frederick?" said Edward, looking up from his newspaper; and his wife likewise raised her eyes from the letter she had been perusing, and smiled at him inquiringly.

"I – I have received news from Somersetshire," he said, conscious that his face had changed colour. "-it is good news," he added at once: for the others had begun to look alarmed; "only quite – quite astonishing. I find that I must go to Bath; – Sophia and the Admiral are there now, Edward, are not they? – may I convey anything to them for you, or to anyone else in Bath?"

"I have a letter half finished, indeed, which I shall commit to your charge, when I have finished it," said Edward; there was that in his expression, which told his brother that he was not entirely deceived. "Are you quite sure, Frederick, that there is nothing in that letter to distress you?"

"No! No, indeed, Edward; I am only very much surprised by the news which my friend conveys. I have – I believe I am offered a very great opportunity thereby; and so you see I must be off at once, or as soon as may be."

If Edward should be led to think the opportunity a professional, or a financial one, so much the better; Captain Wentworth could not bear to have even his brother know of his hopes, for if Anne should refuse him …

But he would not dwell on such an evil supposition. Had he not some reason to hope? It was not unpardonable, surely, to go to her, now that he might honourably do so – now that this miraculous event had freed him to do so. Anne remained single, despite having received, to his certain knowledge, at least one very advantageous offer of marriage; might this have been for his sake? He had thought he discerned, latterly, signs that her affection for him was not altogether extinguished – that, like himself, she might retain the feelings of the past – though his ill-judged behaviour toward the Musgrove girls – Oh! how he regretted what he had allowed angry pride to lead him to do! – might certainly disgust her. Yet so unfailingly kind to him, so quick to see the properest thing to be done, so stalwart in supporting them all in their distress – was there such another woman anywhere?

Her grave, exquisite face – weary, pale, fixed in an expression of the tenderest compassion, as he had last beheld it on leaving her at Uppercross – had been constantly before him these many weeks; had grown ever dearer while ever more remote. Since coming into Shropshire he had been increasingly miserable – had even been mean enough to cloak his evident distress under the pretext of concern for Louisa's health, though knowing her to be recovering apace – constrained to wait the event, for good or ill.

But now! Bless Benwick – bless Louisa – for now he might bestir himself, might act – should act – to pursue this greatest of all prizes – and at once, by God! –

"Yes," he repeated, "I shall be at Bath on Wednesday; and then we shall see."

Sophie Wentworth met George Croft for the first time when the family went to see Frederick off on his first sea voyage as a midshipman of barely 12 years. She was busy trying to deter her mother from fussing too much over an already embarrassed Frederick when a hearty voice boomed down from the ship: "Ah, Wentworth, so good to see you again!"

Sophie looked up and was immediately taken with the good nature that seemed to radiate from the tall, strong figure beaming at her uncle, retired Admiral Wentworth. The Admiral, probably Sophie's favorite relation due to his fondness for telling stories and bringing home exotic gifts to his only niece, had been the one responsible for placing Frederick on the HMS Victory and into the care of young Captain Croft, who, Sophie knew from her uncle's stories, had served as First Lieutenant on the voyage during which the then-Commodore Wentworth had lost his right arm in battle.

"Croft, dear fellow, come down and say hello to your new charge!" Sophie's uncle seemed delighted, and the two men spent several minutes exchanging news about various acquaintances before Captain Croft finally got around to greeting the rest of the party. As the Wentworth family was familiar with the habits of naval men they did not think any less of Admiral Wentworth's friend for this lapse in good manners, and Sophie even credited him with treating her uncle with no hint of pity on account of his injury and the subsequent forced retirement.

Therefore, when Captain Croft had greeted her parents and turned his attention to her, she couldn't help but smile at him with great warmth. This seemed to fluster the young man somewhat, and he held onto her hand maybe a moment too long as he mumbled something along the usual lines of being delighted to make her acquaintance. The slight flush in his cheeks improved his complexion and made his eyes, which met hers with no artifice and genuine friendliness, stand out rather becomingly.

Sophie, already inclined to like him, decided at this point that she would quite like to spend more time in his company, and was therefore delighted when her uncle persuaded Captain Croft to accompany them for one last family dinner. At the inn they were seated side by side, and while he seemed a bit tongue-tied at first, Sophie quickly discovered that, like every naval man she had ever met, words came easy to him as soon as she asked about his ship. Luckily this was no hardship for her, as she had always been interested in navy life, and since Captain Croft did not appear to be one of those insufferably boorish men who considered thoughts of this kind to be unwomanly, she allowed her curiosity free reign.

At two-and-twenty Sophie had met her fair share of men who had thought her frankness and confidence rather unsuitable for an unmarried young lady with little fortune and only passably good looks. Her character was the result of being her mother's main support while her father had to travel for business, as well as the many naval men in her circle due to her uncle's connections, since Admiral Wentworth had never married and stayed with his brother's family when he was not at sea. These gentlemen had introduced young Sophie to many stories of life on board ship with all its glories and hardships but had stopped talking so freely as she grew older.

Now, in Captain Croft, she had met someone who seemed quite happy to converse with her on the subject. Looking back, she was rather astonished at the ease with which he fit into the family party. So much was their mutual sympathy, that during dessert he leaned closer and confided in a lowered voice, as if he was admitting to a rather serious character flaw: "Miss Wentworth, I feel I must tell you what a great pleasure it is to speak to you. I fear, having spent most of my life at sea, I am not very good at the kind of polite conversation most young ladies seem to prefer."

Sophie's father, seated on the other side of the table, overheard and laughed: "Neither is my daughter, Captain Croft, so if I know her at all I can assure you the pleasure is mutual."

"Sophie likes nothing quite so much as hearing about the sea, Captain. She has already made me promise to write to her with all the particulars of my time at sea." Her younger brother Frederick chose this moment to overcome his reticence towards his new commanding officer and guardian, and Sophie blushed furiously.

Captain Croft, however, did not appear to be put off by her family's comments. He smiled at her with a rather appealing mix of shyness warmth before addressing her father: "In that case, with your permission, Mr. Wentworth, I would very much like to ask Miss Wentworth whether she might be willing to exchange letters with me as well as her brother. I know this is a rather impertinent request, but I am afraid the only person I have to write to is an elderly maiden aunt who is not in the least interested in hearing about the day-to-day business of ship life."

Sophie felt her father's amused gaze rest on her and was well aware that her answer would be obvious to him from her inability to meet his eyes: "Well, Captain Croft, my family has always been on good terms with the Royal Navy, and I would not want to deprive you such a small pleasure like a letter while serving away from home and taking care of my son. We will welcome your letters along with Frederick's, and I am certain my daughter will be willing to also include some lines for you whenever she writes to her brother."

Looking into Captain Croft's warm eyes, Sophie managed to nod her agreement: "My family knows me well indeed - I will gladly correspond with you, Captain." His open face lit up, giving her the courage to add: "On the condition that you show us around the Victory before she leaves, so we can better picture Frederick and you while you are away. It has always been a dream of mine to live at sea; I imagine it to be a hard life, but a worthwhile one."

Later, after two years of increasingly intimate correspondence, when he brought her onboard another ship, George Croft confessed to Sophie that it was at this moment that he decided that not only was she a most charming young lady well worth getting to know, but that she was the only woman he would ever want to marry. She laughed and pushed him back onto the narrow wooden cot that would be their marriage bed: "Only then? I knew from the moment I saw your Captain's stripes..."

It was silly of her to feel this way, she thought. It must've been. No matter how many years have passed between them, they knew each other better than they did their families; there was no logical explanation for why she was feeling this nervous, as though she were meeting Frederick for the first time. Frederick! She relished the thought of using her beloved's Christian name. Always, always, in public, it had been Captain Wentworth. It wasn't always so. Once, a long time ago, it was Frederick in her mind and heart she thought of, but when they separated – when she rejected him, she went back to thinking of him as Captain Wentworth. She didn't deserve to call him Frederick then.

But now they were husband and wife and she was free to call him whatever she wanted. Beloved… dear… husband… heart and soul… She was free to do other things too now. The very thought made her blush. Tonight, they would share a bed for the first time and Anne felt… would she be adequate?

She hadn't had much experience, but she wanted to be enough for Frederick. Enough for him to be happy for the rest of his days. Because, the simple truth was, he made her happy – utterly and wholly happy. Her days before Frederick had seemed cloudy – cloudy and cold – and when he came into her life, it was as though the sun warmed everything in sight and left her bright and content. She wanted to be the sun for Frederick. She wanted to be his everything - like he was hers.

From the correspondence of Mrs. George Croft, 14th of March, 1815.

My dearest Edward,

Well, you will be happy to hear that the wedding of our dear Frederick to the wonderful Miss Anne Elliot went off without a hitch. It had to be quick, naturally, as Frederick had to report for duty the very next day, but Anne still managed to look quite smart in her blue travelling costume, since there was not time to make a dress. I won’t fuss you with the details of that, not sure I really could, at any rate. Suffice it to say, it was lovely.

I must say I am most perplexed by the lack of regard in which Anne’s family seems to hold her. They treat her almost as though she were a servant or a poor relation. As Louisa Bentinck informed me, they treated that Mrs. Clay with more respect and love, than our dear Anne. The only one who seems to have any feeling for her at all is Lady Russell, and it was her meddling in the first place, it turns out, which kept Frederick and Anne apart all those years.

Well, be that as it may, now she has us for a family. I am so pleased, as is the Admiral, I can tell you. He had a soft spot for Anne from the moment he met her. When I teased him about it, he responded quite seriously, and told me it was because she reminded him of me at her age. He really is the dearest and most wonderful husband. You must be pleased as well, as I know you always spoke so highly of Anne. Indeed, I almost think you would have married her, if not for the annoyingly formidable Sir Walter. You are very bad, though, not to have told me about her attachment to Frederick all those years ago. When he found out that I didn't know, he was most surprised, having assumed, naturally, that you would have told me. Really, he ought to have told me himself, but still...

And also, there is to be no wedding trip. There was barely a wedding breakfast, as Anne had so much to do to get ready, and her sisters were no help at all. And of course, Louisa and Henrietta were bound up in their own nuptials, so they could not be of any use. I did my best to assist her, but you know I’m not much of a housekeeper. A ship-keeper, perhaps, ha ha! At least I was able to advise her of the best sorts of things to be taken in one’s trunk when going to sea in a ship of war.

For yes, Edward, the new and wonderful Mrs. Wentworth has taken a page from my own book, and will accompany our dear brother on his ship, the HMS Inimitable. It’s Frederick’s third ship now, and he’s very proud of it. I expected him to cut up rough about Anne joining him, seeing as how he does not like women on his ships. But instead it was actually he who proposed it! You wouldn’t have believed it, brother mine, but Frederick, in fact, would brook no denial. Sir Walter and the rest of the Elliot family are,appalled by her decision, and Lady Russell did her best to persuade Anne to stay in England. But she turned a deaf ear.

And here again, Edward, she is like me. She loves Frederick so that she will not be parted from him. She, in fact, quoted my own words back to me when I asked her if she was certain. I had said once at dinner at the Musgroves, that I went everywhere with my husband, and was only ever afraid and ill when I was left behind. (You remember those horrible few months at Deal. How kind and full of good advice you were to me then. I don’t think I’ve ever walked so much in my life! You are a good brother to me.) And I knew that Anne would be all right then. I saw it in her face. I saw it, indeed, in her eyes as she looked past me at Frederick standing on the quarterdeck, the day they were leaving. I’ve seen that same look in mirrors and windows when I catch myself thinking about my dear Admiral.

And now, what of he and I, you are probably wondering? Well, we are still ensconced in Kellynch Hall, while Sir Walter is still the toast of Bath, at least in his own eyes. My poor Admiral wanted to go back to sea, to fight again, now that blackguard Bonaparte’s gotten free and taken power again. But that is not to be. Sadly, his legs have not yet recovered sufficiently, so that he is worried he shall miss this latest action altogether, which pains his sense of duty very much. His ill health still has not soured my darling’s temper though. He suffers mightily, poor thing, but he tries to make light of it at every opportunity. Only now and then, when we are alone, does he confess the pain is “a little worse than I have said”. The doctor says it is not a threat to his life, but merely a threat to his livelihood. How can he not understand that that is one and the same thing for the Admiral?

Perhaps he will rally yet, and go to sea again, before this conflict is over. As you suggested, we are walking a good deal, and we have been back again to Bath, as the first time the Admiral found the baths soothing for his legs. I hold out some hope that soon again, we will be at sea, where the Admiral longs to be and so do I. Land, as the Admiral maintains, does not agree with his legs.

I hope that all is well with Charlotte, in her delicate time. I was so happy to hear the news, coming so soon after your marriage and just when Frederick was returning as well. A joyous time for the Admiral and myself. I do hope that Charlotte is taking good care of herself. So many young women are prone to sicknesses when they are expecting.

Today we are going to take a walk and then the Admiral wants to drive (yes, I know, I put my life in his hands every time I let him drive a phaeton, but he loves it so!) into Upper Cross and visit with Mary and Charles Musgrove at their charming litlle cottage. The Admiral has become very fond of their two boys, and Mary is sorely in need of a confidante now that her sister and the Musgrove girls are wed. She is a challenging woman to befriend, but I think I am beginning to make some headway there. One must not allow her to take advantage of one, so a gentle distance must be kept or she will prevail, which is not good for her character, I feel.

Spending time with her little boys reminds me how much the Admiral misses having children. I do wish I could have given him some, but he never reproaches me for it, the dear man. For myself, I don’t feel the loss as keenly. As you might remember, even when I was a child, I had no use for dolls, and kept stealing Frederick’s toy boat. Was that a sign of my life to come, do you think? Or is that too much fancy for your pragmatical Christianity? I am only teasing you, you know. I am terribly proud of all you have achieved, and happy to know that your new parish is taking so well to you and your sermons.

I must go now, as the Admiral is ready for our walk. I hope to visit you and Charlotte very soon. It will be wonderful when Frederick and Anne are safe here in England again, and we can all go and visit them, as well.

Your loving sister,
Sophie

 

From the Upper Cross Weekly Gazette, 10th of April, 1815:

A Change in our Social Circle – It has come to our attention that the current inhabitant of Kellynch Hall, Admiral Geo. C--, will be changing in his comfortable House for the spartan comforts of a British Naval Vessel, having been given command of the HMS Marvelous, now that War again has come upon us. It is not known what arrangements have been made for his wife, Mrs. C--, though it is believed, upon some rumors about in the village, that Mrs. C-- will also be accommodated aboard the Naval Vessel. This apparently is her preferred Domicile, not wishing to be left behind on shore. A very courageous Female, by all accounts.


