Your character was unfolded in the recital which I received
many months ago from Mr. Wickham.
I shall offer to pay him to-morrow; he will rant and storm about
his love for you, and there will be an end of the matter."
He was a
tall, heavy-looking young man of five-and-twenty.
"I know very well, madam," said he, "that when persons sit down to a
card-table, they must take their chances of these things, and happily I
am not in such circumstances as to make five shillings any object.
But it is so
strange!"
I have faults enough,
but they are not, I hope, of understanding.
Elizabeth saw what he was doing, and at the first
convenient pause, turned to him with an arch smile, and said:

"You mean to frighten me, Mr. Darcy, by coming in all this state to hear
me?
She blushed at the very idea, and
thought it would be better to speak openly to her aunt than to run such
a risk.
You are not going to be _missish_,
I hope, and pretend to be affronted at an idle report.
From what I can collect, he left Derbyshire only one day
after ourselves, and came to town with the resolution of hunting for
them.
But,
though this might be imaginary, she could not be deceived as to his
behaviour to Miss Darcy, who had been set up as a rival to Jane.
"You may readily comprehend," she added, "what my curiosity must be
to know how a person unconnected with any of us, and (comparatively
speaking) a stranger to our family, should have been amongst you at such
a time.
The commendation bestowed on him by Mrs. Reynolds
was of no trifling nature.
They had
nothing to accuse him of but pride; pride he probably had, and if not,
it would certainly be imputed by the inhabitants of a small market-town
where the family did not visit.
I do assure you that the news does not affect
me either with pleasure or pain.
"I beg your pardon; one knows exactly what to think."
"I must confess that he did not speak so well of Wickham as he formerly
did.
"Yes, indeed," cried Mrs. Bennet, offended by his manner of mentioning
a country neighbourhood.
Had she known her sister sought to tear her from such prospects and such
realities as these, what would have been her sensations?
Mr. Collins made his
declaration in form.
Such
squeamish youths as cannot bear to be connected with a little absurdity
are not worth a regret.
it is of no consequence.
Your uncle is as much surprised
as I am--and nothing but the belief of your being a party concerned
would have allowed him to act as he has done.
I am sure Wickham would like a place at court very much, and I do not
think we shall have quite money enough to live upon without some help.
So far each recital confirmed the other; but when she came to the
will, the difference was great.
But whether she
were violently set against the match, or violently delighted with it, it
was certain that her manner would be equally ill adapted to do credit
to her sense; and she could no more bear that Mr. Darcy should hear
the first raptures of her joy, than the first vehemence of her
disapprobation.
She read over her aunt's commendation of him again and again.
"Care of him!
"I was never more surprised than by his behaviour to us.
You ought certainly to forgive them,
as a Christian, but never to admit them in your sight, or allow their
names to be mentioned in your hearing.'
But so they always are.
Mr. Hurst and Mr. Bingley were at piquet, and
Mrs. Hurst was observing their game.
"Have you anything else to propose for my domestic felicity?"
She cared
for none of her friends; she wanted no help of his; she would not hear
of leaving Wickham.
I never met with anybody who delighted me
so much.
The world has been deceived in that respect; and I am happy to say there
will be some little money, even when all his debts are discharged, to
settle on my niece, in addition to her own fortune.
Do not imagine me ignorant of their
condition."
She did at last extort from her father an acknowledgment that the horses
were engaged.
We do not suffer by _accident_.
Mr. Bingley had danced with her twice, and she had been
distinguished by his sisters.
I was afraid they might not;
and we overtook William Goulding in his curricle, so I was determined he
should know it, and so I let down the side-glass next to him, and took
off my glove, and let my hand just rest upon the window frame, so that
he might see the ring, and then I bowed and smiled like anything."
"Mamma," cried Lydia, "my aunt says that Colonel Forster and Captain
Carter do not go so often to Miss Watson's as they did when they first
came; she sees them now very often standing in Clarke's library."
"Yes.
"Your attendance upon her has been too much for you.
Elizabeth took leave of
the whole party in the liveliest of spirits.
But I hope you will not mind it: it is
all for Jane's sake, you know; and there is no occasion for talking
to him, except just now and then.
Mrs. Hurst thought the
same, and added:

"She has nothing, in short, to recommend her, but being an excellent
walker.
Teasing, teasing, man!
Give my love to Colonel Forster.
It was not known that Wickham had a single relationship with whom he
kept up any connection, and it was certain that he had no near one
living.
She
studied every sentence; and her feelings towards its writer were at
times widely different.
With assumed tranquillity he then replied: "I have no wish of denying
that I did everything in my power to separate my friend from your
sister, or that I rejoice in my success.
The Lucases are very artful people indeed,
sister.
Charlotte had seen
them from her husband's room, crossing the road, and immediately running
into the other, told the girls what an honour they might expect, adding:

"I may thank you, Eliza, for this piece of civility.
Kitty, run down and order the carriage.
But everybody is to
judge for themselves, and the Lucases are a very good sort of girls,
I assure you.
Her resolution was for a short time involuntarily kept by the approach
of her sister, who joined her with a cheerful look, which showed her
better satisfied with their visitors, than Elizabeth.
I expected
you to stay two months.
The letter was to this
effect:

"MY DEAR LIZZY,

"I wish you joy.
With what delighted pride
she afterwards visited Mrs. Bingley, and talked of Mrs. Darcy, may
be guessed.
"If!
The whole party before
them, indeed, excited a lively attention.
"She has only one daughter, the heiress of Rosings, and of very
extensive property."
and, with no little alarm, whether the family were down for
the summer?
Such were the kind of lamentations resounding perpetually through
Longbourn House.
Amongst the most violent against him was Mrs. Bennet, whose dislike of
his general behaviour was sharpened into particular resentment by his
having slighted one of her daughters.
I now give it to _you_, if you are resolved on
having him.
I do not know the particulars, but
I know very well that Mr. Darcy is not in the least to blame, that he
cannot bear to hear George Wickham mentioned, and that though my brother
thought that he could not well avoid including him in his invitation to
the officers, he was excessively glad to find that he had taken himself
out of the way.
When she was discontented,
she fancied herself nervous.
Oh!
Yes, yes.
He had
done all this for a girl whom he could neither regard nor esteem.
You and papa, and my sisters, must come down and see us.
They all paint tables, cover screens, and
net purses.
"It certainly is a most iniquitous affair," said Mr. Bennet, "and
nothing can clear Mr. Collins from the guilt of inheriting Longbourn.
By all that I have
ever read, I am convinced that it is very common indeed; that human
nature is particularly prone to it, and that there are very few of us
who do not cherish a feeling of self-complacency on the score of some
quality or other, real or imaginary.
cried Miss Bingley.
Miss Bennet had not been able to hear of his coming without changing
colour.
I was not in a humour
to wait for any opening of yours.
"His manners are very different from his cousin's."
Oh!
"Good heavens!"
"What could become of Mr. Bingley and Jane!"
He seemed scarcely to hear her, and was walking
up and down the room in earnest meditation, his brow contracted, his air
gloomy.
Mr. Collins was also in the same state of angry pride.
"But if I do not take your likeness now, I may never have another
opportunity."
He
arranges the business just as he pleases."
Elizabeth said no more--but her mind could not acquiesce.
No man of common humanity, no man who had any value for his
character, could be capable of it.
"Something very much to the purpose of course.
and so
she asked the two Harringtons to come, but Harriet was ill, and so Pen
was forced to come by herself; and then, what do you think we did?
He then recollected her embarrassment a few days before, on his reading
Mr. Collins's letter; and after laughing at her some time, allowed her
at last to go--saying, as she quitted the room, "If any young men come
for Mary or Kitty, send them in, for I am quite at leisure."
"There is a lady, it seems, a Mrs. Younge, who was some time ago
governess to Miss Darcy, and was dismissed from her charge on some cause
of disapprobation, though he did not say what.
"Are you quite sure, ma'am?--is not there a little mistake?"
you are a great deal too apt, you know, to like people in general.
She was busily searching through the neighbourhood for a
proper situation for her daughter, and, without knowing or considering
what their income might be, rejected many as deficient in size and
importance.
He observed
to her, at a moment when the others were talking together, and in a tone
which had something of real regret, that it "was a very long time since
he had had the pleasure of seeing her;" and, before she could reply,
he added, "It is above eight months.
my dear, dear Jane, I am so
happy!
In
talking over their route the evening before, Mrs. Gardiner expressed
an inclination to see the place again.
They left Brighton together on Sunday night, and were traced
almost to London, but not beyond; they are certainly not gone to
Scotland."
My friend has an excellent understanding--though
I am not certain that I consider her marrying Mr. Collins as the
wisest thing she ever did.
If I may so express it, he has a _right_
to be proud."
In the first place, she persisted in disbelieving
the whole of the matter; secondly, she was very sure that Mr. Collins
had been taken in; thirdly, she trusted that they would never be
happy together; and fourthly, that the match might be broken off.
But she would not
allow herself to stay with her sister, or say half that remained to be
said for the present.
"How strange this is!
My dear Jane, Mr. Collins is a
conceited, pompous, narrow-minded, silly man; you know he is, as well as
I do; and you must feel, as well as I do, that the woman who married him
cannot have a proper way of thinking.
He now wished it more than ever.
Miss Bingley moved with some alacrity
to the pianoforte; and, after a polite request that Elizabeth would lead
the way which the other as politely and more earnestly negatived, she
seated herself.
I thought Miss Elizabeth Bennet looked remarkably
well when she came into the room this morning.
Mr. Darcy, with grave propriety, requested to be allowed the honour of
her hand, but in vain.
His principal object must be to discover the
number of the hackney coach which took them from Clapham.
He took leave of his
relations at Longbourn with as much solemnity as before; wished his fair
cousins health and happiness again, and promised their father another
letter of thanks.
He who, she had been persuaded, would avoid
her as his greatest enemy, seemed, on this accidental meeting, most
eager to preserve the acquaintance, and without any indelicate display
of regard, or any peculiarity of manner, where their two selves only
were concerned, was soliciting the good opinion of her friends, and bent
on making her known to his sister.
If he fears me, why come hither?
My dear Charlotte--impossible!"
"Oh!
They then sat down, and when her inquiries after Rosings were made,
seemed in danger of sinking into total silence.
"All this she must possess," added Darcy, "and to all this she must
yet add something more substantial, in the improvement of her mind by
extensive reading."
Thus much for my general
intention in favour of matrimony; it remains to be told why my views
were directed towards Longbourn instead of my own neighbourhood, where I
can assure you there are many amiable young women.
A
short pause followed this speech, and Mrs. Hurst began again:

"I have an excessive regard for Miss Jane Bennet, she is really a very
sweet girl, and I wish with all my heart she were well settled.
Pardon me.
The
evening conversation, when they were all assembled, had lost much of
its animation, and almost all its sense by the absence of Jane and
Elizabeth.
Elizabeth replied that it was.
But his anger, I am persuaded, lasted no longer than he remained
in any doubt of your sister's sentiments.
Oh, brother, how kind you are!
I am
very, very sorry.
She had been unwilling
to mention Bingley; and the unsettled state of her own feelings had made
her equally avoid the name of his friend.
Jane's temper was not desponding, and she was gradually led to hope,
though the diffidence of affection sometimes overcame the hope, that
Bingley would return to Netherfield and answer every wish of her heart.
From the entrance-hall, of which Mr. Collins pointed out, with a
rapturous air, the fine proportion and the finished ornaments, they
followed the servants through an ante-chamber, to the room where Lady
Catherine, her daughter, and Mrs. Jenkinson were sitting.
He is come--Mr. Bingley is
come.
She smiled, but made no answer.
After a few minutes' reflection, however, she continued, "I _do_
remember his boasting one day, at Netherfield, of the implacability of
his resentments, of his having an unforgiving temper.
In a short time I shall have a daughter married.
She then changed the discourse to one more gratifying to each, and on
which there could be no difference of sentiment.
Elizabeth related to Jane the next day what had passed between Mr.
Wickham and herself.
With all these circumstances to
favour an attachment, and nothing to prevent it, am I wrong, my dearest
Jane, in indulging the hope of an event which will secure the happiness
of so many?"
If my vanity had taken
a musical turn, you would have been invaluable; but as it is, I would
really rather not sit down before those who must be in the habit of
hearing the very best performers."
For the last week they had seen very little
of Lady Catherine or her daughter.
She knew not how
to support herself, and from actual weakness sat down and cried for
half-an-hour.
What am I to do?"
Why could he not keep on quarreling with you, as his father did
before him?"
"I admire all my three sons-in-law highly," said he.
"When I consider," she added in a yet
more agitated voice, "that I might have prevented it!
Mr. Collins was not a sensible man, and the deficiency of nature had
been but little assisted by education or society; the greatest part
of his life having been spent under the guidance of an illiterate and
miserly father; and though he belonged to one of the universities, he
had merely kept the necessary terms, without forming at it any useful
acquaintance.
"Now I am quite happy," said she, "for you will be as happy as myself.
On Sunday, after morning service, the separation, so agreeable to almost
all, took place.
And do you
really love him quite well enough?
Come be quick, be quick!
I am very glad
you liked her.
Wretched, wretched mistake!"
The prospect of such
delights was very cheering, and they parted in mutual good spirits.
Lady Catherine will not think the worse of you
for being simply dressed.
Mr. Bingley followed his advice.
He
arranges the business just as he pleases."
And when I returned home, the ----shire
was to leave Meryton in a week or fortnight's time.
Colonel Fitzwilliam was no
longer an object; she could think only of her letter.
It has been my own doing,
and I ought to feel it."
She burst into tears as she alluded to it, and for a few minutes could
not speak another word.
Upon this signal, the youngest of
her daughters put herself forward.
dear, yes; but you must own she is very plain.
But why Mr. Darcy came so often to the Parsonage, it was more difficult
to understand.
Kitty stared at
him, and Lydia exclaimed.
They all exclaimed against such terrific ideas; and Mr. Gardiner, after
general assurances of his affection for her and all her family, told her
that he meant to be in London the very next day, and would assist Mr.
Bennet in every endeavour for recovering Lydia.
The consequence of it is, that Lady Lucas will have
a daughter married before I have, and that the Longbourn estate is just
as much entailed as ever.
She seems perfectly happy, however, and in a
prudential light it is certainly a very good match for her."
To
this discovery succeeded some others equally mortifying.
"It may do very well for the others," replied Mr. Bingley; "but I am
sure it will be too much for Kitty.
The path just admitted three.
She represented to him all the improprieties of Lydia's general
behaviour, the little advantage she could derive from the friendship of
such a woman as Mrs. Forster, and the probability of her being yet more
imprudent with such a companion at Brighton, where the temptations must
be greater than at home.
The suspicions which had just
arisen of Mr. Darcy and their niece directed their observation towards
each with an earnest though guarded inquiry; and they soon drew from
those inquiries the full conviction that one of them at least knew
what it was to love.
But as no such delicacy restrained her mother,
an hour seldom passed in which she did not talk of Bingley, express her
impatience for his arrival, or even require Jane to confess that if he
did not come back she would think herself very ill used.
Happiness in marriage is entirely a matter of chance.
I know we dine with four-and-twenty families."
"If they had uncles enough to fill _all_ Cheapside," cried Bingley, "it
would not make them one jot less agreeable."
"Oh!
There
is but one part of my conduct in the whole affair on which I do not
reflect with satisfaction; it is that I condescended to adopt the
measures of art so far as to conceal from him your sister's being in
town.
Mr. Gardiner, highly amused by the kind of family
prejudice to which he attributed her excessive commendation of her
master, soon led again to the subject; and she dwelt with energy on his
many merits as they proceeded together up the great staircase.
Lydia laughed, and said:

"Aye, that is just like your formality and discretion.
It had not been very great; he had lost every
point; but when Mrs. Phillips began to express her concern thereupon,
he assured her with much earnest gravity that it was not of the least
importance, that he considered the money as a mere trifle, and begged
that she would not make herself uneasy.
Oh!
"We never had any governess."
She will
make him a very proper wife."
how acutely did she now
feel it!
So near
a vicinity to her mother and Meryton relations was not desirable even to
_his_ easy temper, or _her_ affectionate heart.
"I have not the pleasure of understanding you," said he, when she had
finished her speech.
The families who had been in town for the winter came
back again, and summer finery and summer engagements arose.
After sitting long enough to
admire every article of furniture in the room, from the sideboard to
the fender, to give an account of their journey, and of all that had
happened in London, Mr. Collins invited them to take a stroll in the
garden, which was large and well laid out, and to the cultivation of
which he attended himself.
Miss Bingley's civility to Elizabeth increased at last
very rapidly, as well as her affection for Jane; and when they parted,
after assuring the latter of the pleasure it would always give her
to see her either at Longbourn or Netherfield, and embracing her most
tenderly, she even shook hands with the former.
When the first transports
of rage which had produced his activity in seeking her were over, he
naturally returned to all his former indolence.
Does your
charge give you much trouble?
"Oh!
Do not let
us quarrel about the past.
Her
home and her housekeeping, her parish and her poultry, and all their
dependent concerns, had not yet lost their charms.
She answered him in the usual
way, and after a moment's pause, added:

"My eldest sister has been in town these three months.
said Mrs. Bennet, shaking her head, "then she is better off than
many girls.
Lady Catherine then
observed,

"Your father's estate is entailed on Mr. Collins, I think.
"Are you so severe upon your own sex as to doubt the possibility of all
this?"
Resignation
to inevitable evils is the duty of us all; the peculiar duty of a
young man who has been so fortunate as I have been in early preferment;
and I trust I am resigned.
Elizabeth now began to revive.
"I am very sensible, madam, of the hardship to my fair cousins, and
could say much on the subject, but that I am cautious of appearing
forward and precipitate.
Mr. Collins on his return highly gratified Mrs. Bennet by admiring
Mrs. Phillips's manners and politeness.
"How so?
That he should have been in love with her for
so many months!
My sisters may write to _me_.
When breakfast was over they were joined by the sisters; and Elizabeth
began to like them herself, when she saw how much affection and
solicitude they showed for Jane.
"They met again on Sunday, and then _I_ saw him too.
Well, that is very decided indeed--that does seem as
if--but, however, it may all come to nothing, you know."
It does not often
happen that the interference of friends will persuade a young man of
independent fortune to think no more of a girl whom he was violently in
love with only a few days before."
And you may be certain when I have the honour of
seeing her again, I shall speak in the very highest terms of your
modesty, economy, and other amiable qualification."
His
friend had left him that morning for London, but was to return home in
ten days time.
"How can you contrive to write so even?"
I see the imprudence
of it.
"When you have killed all your own birds, Mr. Bingley," said her mother,
"I beg you will come here, and shoot as many as you please on Mr.
Bennet's manor.
When those dances
were over, she returned to Charlotte Lucas, and was in conversation with
her, when she found herself suddenly addressed by Mr. Darcy who took
her so much by surprise in his application for her hand, that,
without knowing what she did, she accepted him.
Elizabeth, who knew this to be levelled at Mr. Darcy, was in such
misery of shame, that she could hardly keep her seat.
You have
withheld the advantages which you must know to have been designed for
him.
How long has she been such a favourite?--and pray, when am I to wish you
joy?"
Were it known to the rest
of my family, I should not have merely my own gratitude to express."
They were always moving from place to place in quest of a cheap
situation, and always spending more than they ought.
Last Christmas you were afraid of his marrying me,
because it would be imprudent; and now, because he is trying to get
a girl with only ten thousand pounds, you want to find out that he is
mercenary."
The expression
of his face changed gradually from indignant contempt to a composed and
steady gravity.
Darcy made no answer.
Their other engagements were few, as the style of living
in the neighbourhood in general was beyond Mr. Collins's reach.
But don't imagine it was from
any silly cause.
Elizabeth received her
congratulations amongst the rest, and then, sick of this folly, took
refuge in her own room, that she might think with freedom.
"I dare say she will; she has got over the most trying age."
They found Mr. Bennet still up.
And will you give yourself the trouble of carrying
similar assurances to his creditors in Meryton, of whom I shall subjoin
a list according to his information?
He wisely resolved to be particularly careful that no sign of admiration
should _now_ escape him, nothing that could elevate her with the hope
of influencing his felicity; sensible that if such an idea had been
suggested, his behaviour during the last day must have material weight
in confirming or crushing it.
She answered with equal
indifference and brevity, and the other said no more.
"Poor Wickham!
As it was certain, however, that
somebody was coming, Bingley instantly prevailed on Miss Bennet to avoid
the confinement of such an intrusion, and walk away with him into the
shrubbery.
As for Elizabeth herself, this invitation was so far from
exciting in her the same feelings as in her mother and Lydia, that she
considered it as the death warrant of all possibility of common sense
for the latter; and detestable as such a step must make her were it
known, she could not help secretly advising her father not to let her
go.
There
are undoubtedly many who could not say the same, but thanks to Lady
Catherine de Bourgh, I am removed far beyond the necessity of regarding
little matters."
It was gratitude; gratitude, not merely for having once loved her,
but for loving her still well enough to forgive all the petulance and
acrimony of her manner in rejecting him, and all the unjust accusations
accompanying her rejection.
To persuade him against returning into
Hertfordshire, when that conviction had been given, was scarcely the
work of a moment.
That is the place to get
husbands.
But no
sooner had he made it clear to himself and his friends that she hardly
had a good feature in her face, than he began to find it was rendered
uncommonly intelligent by the beautiful expression of her dark eyes.
And
Lady Lucas has been very kind; she walked here on Wednesday morning to
condole with us, and offered her services, or any of her daughters', if
they should be of use to us."
I
know you will contrive it all."
And their
mother had the satisfaction of knowing that she would be able to show
her married daughter in the neighbourhood before she was banished to the
North.
Her younger
sisters soon began to make interest with her for objects of happiness
which she might in future be able to dispense.
Mr. Wickham did not play at whist, and with ready delight was he
received at the other table between Elizabeth and Lydia.
Elizabeth was surprised, but
said not a word.
The advice
was followed readily, for the feverish symptoms increased, and her head
ached acutely.
You
taught me a lesson, hard indeed at first, but most advantageous.
He
comes down on Thursday at the latest, very likely on Wednesday.
"I have sent for
you on an affair of importance.
She has been allowed to dispose of her time in the most idle
and frivolous manner, and to adopt any opinions that came in her way.
When first
he entered the corps, she was ready enough to admire him; but so we all
were.
Had he done his duty in that
respect, Lydia need not have been indebted to her uncle for whatever
of honour or credit could now be purchased for her.
"Oh!
"That is a question which I hardly know how to answer.
Happy for all her maternal feelings was the day on which Mrs. Bennet got
rid of her two most deserving daughters.
Miss Bingley made no answer, and soon afterwards she got up and walked
about the room.
Lady Catherine, Sir William, and Mr. and Mrs. Collins sat
down to quadrille; and as Miss de Bourgh chose to play at cassino, the
two girls had the honour of assisting Mrs. Jenkinson to make up her
party.
"He could be still amiable, still pleasing, to my uncle and aunt, when
he was in town; and why not to me?
"I mention it, because it is the living which I ought to have had.
Mr. Gardiner added in his letter, that they might expect to see their
father at home on the following day, which was Saturday.
she cried.
Wretched, wretched mistake!"
But is it
certain--absolutely certain?"
But I shall not
scruple to assert, that the serenity of your sister's countenance and
air was such as might have given the most acute observer a conviction
that, however amiable her temper, her heart was not likely to be
easily touched.
She lost all concern for him in
finding herself thus selected as the object of such idle and frivolous
gallantry; and while she steadily repressed it, could not but feel the
reproof contained in his believing, that however long, and for whatever
cause, his attentions had been withdrawn, her vanity would be gratified,
and her preference secured at any time by their renewal.
Nor was her respect for him, though it made her more quiet, at all
likely to make her more elegant.
exclaimed Elizabeth, "you are too good.
Again she read
on; but every line proved more clearly that the affair, which she had
believed it impossible that any contrivance could so represent as to
render Mr. Darcy's conduct in it less than infamous, was capable of a
turn which must make him entirely blameless throughout the whole.
Her sister had not the smallest objection, and the pianoforte was
opened; and Darcy, after a few moments' recollection, was not sorry for
it.
_that_ abominable Mr. Darcy!
"I honour your circumspection.
No one admitted to the privilege of hearing you can
think anything wanting.
She is a very
headstrong, foolish girl, and does not know her own interest but I will
_make_ her know it."
"Oh, my dear,
dear aunt," she rapturously cried, "what delight!
"Your ladyship has declared it to be impossible."
"I had much rather go in the coach."
When the ladies returned to the drawing-room, there was little to
be done but to hear Lady Catherine talk, which she did without any
intermission till coffee came in, delivering her opinion on every
subject in so decisive a manner, as proved that she was not used to
have her judgement controverted.
She remembered also that, till the Netherfield
family had quitted the country, he had told his story to no one but
herself; but that after their removal it had been everywhere discussed;
that he had then no reserves, no scruples in sinking Mr. Darcy's
character, though he had assured her that respect for the father would
always prevent his exposing the son.
Miss Bingley immediately fixed her eyes on his face, and desired he
would tell her what lady had the credit of inspiring such reflections.
"Elizabeth Bennet," said Miss Bingley, when the door was closed on her,
"is one of those young ladies who seek to recommend themselves to the
other sex by undervaluing their own; and with many men, I dare say, it
succeeds.
Kitty, to her very material advantage, spent the chief of her time with
her two elder sisters.
And then, you know, when once
they get together, there is no end of it.
How are they even to be discovered?
As soon as they entered, Bingley looked at her so expressively, and
shook hands with such warmth, as left no doubt of his good information;
and he soon afterwards said aloud, "Mrs. Bennet, have you no more lanes
hereabouts in which Lizzy may lose her way again to-day?"
First, that you will allow me the free use of my understanding on the
present occasion; and secondly, of my room.
One day's delay, she observed,
would be of small importance; and her mother was too happy to be quite
so obstinate as usual.
Ten thousand a year!
And in the
wretched state of his own finances, there was a very powerful motive for
secrecy, in addition to his fear of discovery by Lydia's relations, for
it had just transpired that he had left gaming debts behind him to a
very considerable amount.
"For we must attribute this happy conclusion," she added, "in a great
measure to his kindness.
Elizabeth passed the chief of the night in her sister's room, and in the
morning had the pleasure of being able to send a tolerable answer to the
inquiries which she very early received from Mr. Bingley by a housemaid,
and some time afterwards from the two elegant ladies who waited on his
sisters.
Pray make my excuses to
Pratt for not keeping my engagement, and dancing with him to-night.
Then after a short silence he continued:

"Lizzy, I bear you no ill-will for being justified in your advice to me
last May, which, considering the event, shows some greatness of mind."
A great deal more passed at the
other table.
They had not long been together before Mr. Darcy told her that Bingley
was also coming to wait on her; and she had barely time to express her
satisfaction, and prepare for such a visitor, when Bingley's quick
step was heard on the stairs, and in a moment he entered the room.
She will
make him a very proper wife."
"Kitty and I are going up stairs to sit in
my dressing-room."
On the following morning he hastened to Rosings to pay his
respects.
Mr. Darcy, who was leaning against the mantelpiece with his eyes fixed
on her face, seemed to catch her words with no less resentment than
surprise.
Mr. Collins might never make the offer, and
till he did, it was useless to quarrel about him.
The next variation which their visit afforded was produced by the
entrance of servants with cold meat, cake, and a variety of all the
finest fruits in season; but this did not take place till after many
a significant look and smile from Mrs. Annesley to Miss Darcy had been
given, to remind her of her post.
"If he means to be but little at Netherfield, it would be better for
the neighbourhood that he should give up the place entirely, for then we
might possibly get a settled family there.
He can have nothing to say to me that anybody need not hear.
Pray write instantly, and let me understand it--unless it is,
for very cogent reasons, to remain in the secrecy which Lydia seems
to think necessary; and then I must endeavour to be satisfied with
ignorance."
Yes, there was something in _that_; I told you so from the
first, you may remember."
"When I consider," she added in a yet
more agitated voice, "that I might have prevented it!
It
was owing to him, to his reserve and want of proper consideration, that
Wickham's character had been so misunderstood, and consequently that he
had been received and noticed as he was.
An express came at twelve last night, just as we were all gone to bed,
from Colonel Forster, to inform us that she was gone off to Scotland
with one of his officers; to own the truth, with Wickham!
I am happier even than Jane; she
only smiles, I laugh.
She had been watching him the
last hour, she said, as he walked up and down the street, and had Mr.
Wickham appeared, Kitty and Lydia would certainly have continued the
occupation, but unluckily no one passed windows now except a few of the
officers, who, in comparison with the stranger, were become "stupid,
disagreeable fellows."
I know of nobody that is coming, I am sure,
unless Charlotte Lucas should happen to call in--and I hope _my_ dinners
are good enough for her.
You can hardly doubt the
purport of my discourse, however your natural delicacy may lead you to
dissemble; my attentions have been too marked to be mistaken.
"I am perfectly convinced by it that Mr. Darcy has no defect.
There
was novelty in the scheme, and as, with such a mother and such
uncompanionable sisters, home could not be faultless, a little change
was not unwelcome for its own sake.
But how little of permanent happiness could
belong to a couple who were only brought together because their passions
were stronger than their virtue, she could easily conjecture.
When all of the house that was open to general inspection had been seen,
they returned downstairs, and, taking leave of the housekeeper, were
consigned over to the gardener, who met them at the hall-door.
Elizabeth felt that they had entirely misunderstood his character, but
said nothing.
Jane went to him instantly, kissed him, and thanked him for his
goodness.
Let us hope for
better things.
On the contrary, every particular
relative to his sister was meant to be kept as much as possible to
myself; and if I endeavour to undeceive people as to the rest of his
conduct, who will believe me?
They may wish many things besides his
happiness; they may wish his increase of wealth and consequence; they
may wish him to marry a girl who has all the importance of money, great
connections, and pride."
They have
known her much longer than they have known me; no wonder if they love
her better.
Girls, can I do
anything for you in Meryton?
Elizabeth could never
address her without feeling that all the comfort of intimacy was over,
and though determined not to slacken as a correspondent, it was for the
sake of what had been, rather than what was.
She felt anew the justice of Mr. Darcy's
objections; and never had she been so much disposed to pardon his
interference in the views of his friend.
Well, that is very decided indeed--that does seem as
if--but, however, it may all come to nothing, you know."
Elizabeth took leave of
the whole party in the liveliest of spirits.
"And this," cried Darcy, as he walked with quick steps across the room,
"is your opinion of me!
Charlotte the wife of Mr. Collins was a
most humiliating picture!
The colour which had been driven from her face, returned for half a
minute with an additional glow, and a smile of delight added lustre to
her eyes, as she thought for that space of time that his affection and
wishes must still be unshaken.
"Yes," replied Mr. Wickham; "his estate there is a noble one.
Mrs. Gardiner was standing a little behind; and on her pausing, he asked
her if she would do him the honour of introducing him to her friends.
"It certainly is a most iniquitous affair," said Mr. Bennet, "and
nothing can clear Mr. Collins from the guilt of inheriting Longbourn.
I could not bear to have her ten miles from me; and as for
Pulvis Lodge, the attics are dreadful."
To such perseverance in wilful self-deception Elizabeth would make
no reply, and immediately and in silence withdrew; determined, if
he persisted in considering her repeated refusals as flattering
encouragement, to apply to her father, whose negative might be uttered
in such a manner as to be decisive, and whose behaviour at least could
not be mistaken for the affectation and coquetry of an elegant female.
"Yes, sir, I know I am.
My dear aunt, how could you think of it?
He would scarcely be ten pounds a year the loser by the
hundred that was to be paid them; for, what with her board and pocket
allowance, and the continual presents in money which passed to her
through her mother's hands, Lydia's expenses had been very little within
that sum.
But so they always are.
If it be so, if I have been misled by such error to inflict
pain on her, your resentment has not been unreasonable.
And poor Mr. Darcy!
"About a month," said Elizabeth; and then, unwilling to let the subject
drop, added, "He is a man of very large property in Derbyshire, I
understand."
It would be dreadful!
He was always to have gone on
Saturday, and to Saturday he meant to stay.
He scarcely ever spoke
to her, and the assiduous attentions which he had been so sensible of
himself were transferred for the rest of the day to Miss Lucas, whose
civility in listening to him was a seasonable relief to them all, and
especially to her friend.
I cannot find
out that I hate her at all, or that I am in the least unwilling to
think her a very good sort of girl.
"And quite alone?
What can he mean by being so tiresome as to be always
coming here?
There was another reason too for her opposition.
how I laughed!
But your
_family_ owe me nothing.
Elizabeth was at no loss to understand from whence this deference to her
authority proceeded; but it was not in her power to give any information
of so satisfactory a nature as the compliment deserved.
Mr. Bennet could not have chosen
better.
"We have not determined how far it shall carry us," said Mrs. Gardiner,
"but, perhaps, to the Lakes."
shocking!"
A deeper shade of _hauteur_ overspread his
features, but he said not a word, and Elizabeth, though blaming herself
for her own weakness, could not go on.
Well, he is
a very undeserving young man--and I do not suppose there's the least
chance in the world of her ever getting him now.
"You did!
But to be candid without ostentation or design--to take the
good of everybody's character and make it still better, and say nothing
of the bad--belongs to you alone.
I will not spend my hours
in running after my neighbours every time they go away and come back
again."
cried Elizabeth; "but how could _that_ be?
Steady to his purpose, he scarcely spoke
ten words to her through the whole of Saturday, and though they were
at one time left by themselves for half-an-hour, he adhered most
conscientiously to his book, and would not even look at her.
I had narrowly observed her during the two visits
which I had lately made here; and I was convinced of her affection."
When the dancing recommenced, however, and Darcy approached to claim her
hand, Charlotte could not help cautioning her in a whisper, not to be a
simpleton, and allow her fancy for Wickham to make her appear unpleasant
in the eyes of a man ten times his consequence.
she added, "by far too much.
I rather wonder now at your knowing _any_."
Collins!"
Jane was not deceived, but she was
affected; and though feeling no reliance on her, could not help writing
her a much kinder answer than she knew was deserved.
"Lizzy, when you first read that letter, I am sure you could not treat
the matter as you do now."
Elizabeth could safely say that it was a great happiness where that was
the case, and with equal sincerity could add, that she firmly believed
and rejoiced in his domestic comforts.
"Probably not; but Mr. Darcy can please where he chooses.
I
did not expect such a compliment."
And it was settled that we should all be there by eleven
o'clock.
"We must endeavour to forget all that has passed on either side," said
Jane: "I hope and trust they will yet be happy.
Mr.
Such amiable qualities must speak for
themselves.
Let us sit down.
_That_
is my idea of good breeding; and those persons who fancy themselves very
important, and never open their mouths, quite mistake the matter."
The possibility of Mr. Collins's fancying himself in love with her
friend had once occurred to Elizabeth within the last day or two; but
that Charlotte could encourage him seemed almost as far from
possibility as she could encourage him herself, and her astonishment was
consequently so great as to overcome at first the bounds of decorum, and
she could not help crying out:

"Engaged to Mr. Collins!
Elizabeth was watchful enough to
see it all, but she could see it and write of it without material pain.
She then changed the discourse to one more gratifying to each, and on
which there could be no difference of sentiment.
His accompanying them was a double advantage; she felt all the
compliment it offered to herself, and it was most acceptable as an
occasion of introducing him to her father and mother.
Mr. Darcy spoke with affectionate praise of his sister's proficiency.
"You dislike an argument,
and want to silence this."
I often
tell young ladies that no excellence in music is to be acquired without
constant practice.
What a pity it is, mamma, we did not all go."
She was gone directly.
She
soon learnt that they were indebted for their present good understanding
to the efforts of his aunt, who did call on him in her return through
London, and there relate her journey to Longbourn, its motive, and the
substance of her conversation with Elizabeth; dwelling emphatically on
every expression of the latter which, in her ladyship's apprehension,
peculiarly denoted her perverseness and assurance; in the belief that
such a relation must assist her endeavours to obtain that promise
from her nephew which she had refused to give.
Wickham indeed had gone to her on their first arrival in London, and had
she been able to receive them into her house, they would have taken up
their abode with her.
What an agreeable man Sir
William is, Mr. Bingley, is not he?
Lydia was exceedingly fond of him.
He now wished it more than ever.
With no expectation of pleasure, but with the strongest curiosity,
Elizabeth opened the letter, and, to her still increasing wonder,
perceived an envelope containing two sheets of letter-paper, written
quite through, in a very close hand.
Mrs. Bennet, through the assistance of servants,
contrived to have the earliest tidings of it, that the period of anxiety
and fretfulness on her side might be as long as it could.
"Speak to Lizzy about it yourself.
"Not that I _shall_, though," she added to herself, as she finished
the letter; "and my dear aunt, if you do not tell me in an honourable
manner, I shall certainly be reduced to tricks and stratagems to find it
out."
She was afraid of talking longer of his
friend; and, having nothing else to say, was now determined to leave the
trouble of finding a subject to him.
"I am much obliged to your ladyship for your kind invitation," replied
Elizabeth, "but it is not in my power to accept it.
Their brother is a pleasant gentlemanlike man--he
is a great friend of Darcy's."
Mr. Bingley had soon made himself acquainted with all the principal
people in the room; he was lively and unreserved, danced every dance,
was angry that the ball closed so early, and talked of giving
one himself at Netherfield.
Nor am I ashamed of the feelings I related.
Your
reproof, so well applied, I shall never forget: 'had you behaved in a
more gentlemanlike manner.'
We must trespass
a little longer on your kindness."
Something, he supposed, might be
attributed to his connection with them, but yet he had never met with so
much attention in the whole course of his life.
"Mrs. Collins, you must send a servant
with them.
And in the first place, let us hear what has happened to you all
since you went away.
Mrs.
Reynolds could interest her on no other point.
Pleased with the preference of one, and offended by the neglect
of the other, on the very beginning of our acquaintance, I have courted
prepossession and ignorance, and driven reason away, where either were
concerned.
It now first
struck her, that _she_ was selected from among her sisters as worthy
of being mistress of Hunsford Parsonage, and of assisting to form a
quadrille table at Rosings, in the absence of more eligible visitors.
The dinner too in its turn was highly admired; and
he begged to know to which of his fair cousins the excellency of its
cooking was owing.
Elizabeth laughed heartily at this picture of herself, and said to
Colonel Fitzwilliam, "Your cousin will give you a very pretty notion of
me, and teach you not to believe a word I say.
His character was decided.
"There was just such an informality in the terms of the bequest as to
give me no hope from law.
He believed him to be imprudent and extravagant.
Mr.
In that case he would return no more.
Without supposing them,
from what she saw, to be very seriously in love, their preference
of each other was plain enough to make her a little uneasy; and
she resolved to speak to Elizabeth on the subject before she left
Hertfordshire, and represent to her the imprudence of encouraging such
an attachment.
It is a grievous affair to my poor girls, you
must confess.
We
shall be at Newcastle all the winter, and I dare say there will be some
balls, and I will take care to get good partners for them all."
As soon
as they had driven from the door, Elizabeth was called on by her cousin
to give her opinion of all that she had seen at Rosings, which, for
Charlotte's sake, she made more favourable than it really was.
"My dear, you flatter me.
Not to appear to disgrace his family,
to degenerate from the popular qualities, or lose the influence of the
Pemberley House, is a powerful motive.
"And this is your real opinion!
The
dear Colonel rallied his spirits tolerably till just at last; but Darcy
seemed to feel it most acutely, more, I think, than last year.
Dearest
Lizzy, I hardly know what I would write, but I have bad news for you,
and it cannot be delayed.
The distinction had perhaps been felt too strongly.
For about three years I heard little of him; but on the decease of the
incumbent of the living which had been designed for him, he applied to
me again by letter for the presentation.
only think!
"Oh!
Those that best pleased her, as
placing his conduct in the noblest light, seemed most improbable.
Of what he has _particularly_ accused me I
am ignorant; but of the truth of what I shall relate, I can summon more
than one witness of undoubted veracity.
And when
the party entered the assembly room it consisted of only five
altogether--Mr. Bingley, his two sisters, the husband of the eldest, and
another young man.
You must send John with the young ladies, Mrs. Collins.
His arrival was soon known at the Parsonage; for Mr. Collins was walking
the whole morning within view of the lodges opening into Hunsford Lane,
in order to have the earliest assurance of it, and after making his
bow as the carriage turned into the Park, hurried home with the great
intelligence.
Since her
being at Lambton, she had heard that Miss Darcy was exceedingly proud;
but the observation of a very few minutes convinced her that she was
only exceedingly shy.
Lady Catherine, Sir William, and Mr. and Mrs. Collins sat
down to quadrille; and as Miss de Bourgh chose to play at cassino, the
two girls had the honour of assisting Mrs. Jenkinson to make up her
party.
His behaviour to us has,
in every respect, been as pleasing as when we were in Derbyshire.
I have not been at all able to account
for the honour of seeing you here."
Do you play and sing, Miss
Bennet?"
Unfortunately an only son (for many years an only child), I was spoilt
by my parents, who, though good themselves (my father, particularly, all
that was benevolent and amiable), allowed, encouraged, almost taught
me to be selfish and overbearing; to care for none beyond my own family
circle; to think meanly of all the rest of the world; to wish at least
to think meanly of their sense and worth compared with my own.
She became jealous of his esteem, when she could no
longer hope to be benefited by it.
Into _one_ house in this
neighbourhood they shall never have admittance.
"Then, who taught you?
You have
withheld the advantages which you must know to have been designed for
him.
That she should receive an offer of
marriage from Mr. Darcy!
"Well, and what news does it bring--good or bad?"
They then went away.
You will not be fit to be seen when you get
there."
Mr. Gardiner declared his
willingness, and Elizabeth was applied to for her approbation.
Elizabeth could but just _affect_ concern
in missing him; she really rejoiced at it.
In consequence of an agreement between the sisters, Elizabeth wrote the
next morning to their mother, to beg that the carriage might be sent for
them in the course of the day.
I should be
ashamed of having one that was only entailed on me."
"In such cases, a woman has not often much beauty to think of."
Lydia was Lydia still; untamed, unabashed, wild, noisy,
and fearless.
I know not what to think.
It is really too great a violation of decency, honour, and
interest, for him to be guilty of.
"Were it certain that Lady Catherine would think so," said Mr. Collins
very gravely--"but I cannot imagine that her ladyship would at all
disapprove of you.
Our plain
manner of living, our small rooms and few domestics, and the little we
see of the world, must make Hunsford extremely dull to a young lady like
yourself; but I hope you will believe us grateful for the condescension,
and that we have done everything in our power to prevent your spending
your time unpleasantly."
She talked to Elizabeth again and again;
coaxed and threatened her by turns.
As they passed through the
hall, Lady Catherine opened the doors into the dining-parlour and
drawing-room, and pronouncing them, after a short survey, to be decent
looking rooms, walked on.
In such an exigence, my
uncle's advice and assistance would be everything in the world; he will
immediately comprehend what I must feel, and I rely upon his goodness."
Oh!
Elizabeth, who was left by herself, now smiled at the rapidity and ease
with which an affair was finally settled, that had given them so many
previous months of suspense and vexation.
Mr. Darcy's letter to Lady Catherine was in a different style; and still
different from either was what Mr. Bennet sent to Mr. Collins, in reply
to his last.
One has got all the goodness, and the other all the
appearance of it."
Darcy."
Mrs. Bennet and Lydia are going in the carriage to
Meryton.
or under what misrepresentation can you here impose upon others?"
Mr. Darcy spoke with affectionate praise of his sister's proficiency.
Wickham's alarm now appeared in a heightened complexion and agitated
look; for a few minutes he was silent, till, shaking off his
embarrassment, he turned to her again, and said in the gentlest of
accents:

"You, who so well know my feeling towards Mr. Darcy, will readily
comprehend how sincerely I must rejoice that he is wise enough to assume
even the _appearance_ of what is right.
"I have said no such thing.
Why must _she_ be scampering about the
country, because her sister had a cold?
It was possible, and sometimes she thought it probable, that
his affection might be reanimated, and the influence of his friends
successfully combated by the more natural influence of Jane's
attractions.
Then, perceiving in Elizabeth no inclination of replying, she added,
"Unhappy as the event must be for Lydia, we may draw from it this useful
lesson: that loss of virtue in a female is irretrievable; that one
false step involves her in endless ruin; that her reputation is no less
brittle than it is beautiful; and that she cannot be too much guarded in
her behaviour towards the undeserving of the other sex."
No, no, let me shift for myself; and, perhaps, if I have very
good luck, I may meet with another Mr. Collins in time."
He generously imputed the whole to his mistaken pride, and
confessed that he had before thought it beneath him to lay his private
actions open to the world.
Mr.
Hurst had therefore nothing to do, but to stretch himself on one of the
sofas and go to sleep.
"They battled it together for a long time, which was more than either
the gentleman or lady concerned in it deserved.
Where is your sash, my dear?"
Or, why did he
thus come a day before he was expected?
The park was very large, and contained great variety of ground.
No officer is ever to enter into
my house again, nor even to pass through the village.
Mr. Gardiner, whose manners were very easy and pleasant, encouraged her
communicativeness by his questions and remarks; Mrs. Reynolds, either
by pride or attachment, had evidently great pleasure in talking of her
master and his sister.
With
the kindest concern he came on to Longbourn, and broke his apprehensions
to us in a manner most creditable to his heart.
Mr. Bingley intended it likewise, and
sometimes made choice of his county; but as he was now provided with a
good house and the liberty of a manor, it was doubtful to many of those
who best knew the easiness of his temper, whether he might not spend the
remainder of his days at Netherfield, and leave the next generation to
purchase.
"And yet I meant to be uncommonly clever in taking so decided a dislike
to him, without any reason.
"I mean, that no man in his senses would marry Lydia on so slight a
temptation as one hundred a year during my life, and fifty after I am
gone."
In society so superior to what she had generally
known, her improvement was great.
"It keeps him in good
humour," said she, "and I am more obliged to you than I can express."
When have you been prevented by want of money from going
wherever you chose, or procuring anything you had a fancy for?"
His affection was proved
to have been sincere, and his conduct cleared of all blame, unless any
could attach to the implicitness of his confidence in his friend.
His surprise was great.
You
must give me leave to judge for myself, and pay me the compliment
of believing what I say.
But, to be sure, the
good lady who showed us his house did give him a most flaming character!
"What is Mr. Darcy to me, pray, that I should be afraid of him?
What can he mean by being so tiresome as to be always
coming here?
Mr. Collins
received and returned these felicitations with equal pleasure, and then
proceeded to relate the particulars of their interview, with the result
of which he trusted he had every reason to be satisfied, since the
refusal which his cousin had steadfastly given him would naturally flow
from her bashful modesty and the genuine delicacy of her character.
Jane had sent Caroline an early answer to her letter, and was counting
the days till she might reasonably hope to hear again.
Where shall you change horses?
We may compare our different opinions."
My situation in life, my connections
with the family of de Bourgh, and my relationship to your own, are
circumstances highly in my favour; and you should take it into further
consideration, that in spite of your manifold attractions, it is by no
means certain that another offer of marriage may ever be made you.
Lady Catherine had many other questions to ask respecting their journey,
and as she did not answer them all herself, attention was necessary,
which Elizabeth believed to be lucky for her; or, with a mind so
occupied, she might have forgotten where she was.
He
never said a great deal, nor did she give herself the trouble of talking
or of listening much; but it struck her in the course of their third
rencontre that he was asking some odd unconnected questions--about
her pleasure in being at Hunsford, her love of solitary walks, and her
opinion of Mr. and Mrs. Collins's happiness; and that in speaking of
Rosings and her not perfectly understanding the house, he seemed to
expect that whenever she came into Kent again she would be staying
_there_ too.
"I never saw anyone so shocked.
Catherine was disconcerted, and made no answer; but Lydia, with perfect
indifference, continued to express her admiration of Captain Carter,
and her hope of seeing him in the course of the day, as he was going the
next morning to London.
Jane ran to her uncle and aunt, and welcomed and
thanked them both, with alternate smiles and tears.
"It is only evident that Miss Bingley does not mean that he _should_."
I know no harm of her."
said Elizabeth, still
addressing Colonel Fitzwilliam.
"Impossible, Mr. Bennet, impossible, when I am not acquainted with him
myself; how can you be so teasing?"
They are destined for each other by the voice of
every member of their respective houses; and what is to divide them?
There will not be the
smallest occasion for your coming to town again; therefore stay quiet at
Longbourn, and depend on my diligence and care.
Miss
Bingley saw all this likewise; and, in the imprudence of anger, took the
first opportunity of saying, with sneering civility:

"Pray, Miss Eliza, are not the ----shire Militia removed from Meryton?
He was received by Mrs.
Bennet with a degree of civility which made her two daughters ashamed,
especially when contrasted with the cold and ceremonious politeness of
her curtsey and address to his friend.
You dare not,
you cannot deny, that you have been the principal, if not the only means
of dividing them from each other--of exposing one to the censure of the
world for caprice and instability, and the other to its derision for
disappointed hopes, and involving them both in misery of the acutest
kind."
But he is, beyond all comparison,
the most agreeable man I ever saw--and if he becomes really attached to
me--I believe it will be better that he should not.
If there _were_ but
such another man for you!"
Bingley, she had likewise seen for an instant, and in that short period
saw him looking both pleased and embarrassed.
But when she read and re-read with the closest attention, the
particulars immediately following of Wickham's resigning all pretensions
to the living, of his receiving in lieu so considerable a sum as three
thousand pounds, again was she forced to hesitate.
"I am not now to learn," replied Mr. Collins, with a formal wave of the
hand, "that it is usual with young ladies to reject the addresses of the
man whom they secretly mean to accept, when he first applies for their
favour; and that sometimes the refusal is repeated a second, or even a
third time.
Catherine and Lydia had information
for them of a different sort.
Elizabeth felt that they had entirely misunderstood his character, but
said nothing.
Very
nonsensical to come at all!
No, never.
Elizabeth could bear it no longer.
I will not be alarmed though your sister _does_ play so well.
Do not wish me such an
evil."
"And till Colonel Forster came himself, not one of you entertained a
doubt, I suppose, of their being really married?"
What a meeting for her, when she
first sees my aunt!"
Her curiosity, however, was unexpectedly
relieved.
His countenance rather gained in austerity; and he scarcely
opened his lips.
He was a
tall, heavy-looking young man of five-and-twenty.
Colonel Forster will, I dare say, do everything in
his power to satisfy us on this head.
Elizabeth joined them again only to say that her sister was worse, and
that she could not leave her.
Elizabeth soon perceived, that though this great lady was not in
commission of the peace of the county, she was a most active magistrate
in her own parish, the minutest concerns of which were carried to her
by Mr. Collins; and whenever any of the cottagers were disposed to
be quarrelsome, discontented, or too poor, she sallied forth into the
village to settle their differences, silence their complaints, and scold
them into harmony and plenty.
I have known him
too long and too well to be a fair judge.
The Gardiners stayed only one night at Longbourn, and set off the
next morning with Elizabeth in pursuit of novelty and amusement.
While thus engaged, Elizabeth had a fair opportunity of deciding whether
she most feared or wished for the appearance of Mr. Darcy, by the
feelings which prevailed on his entering the room; and then, though but
a moment before she had believed her wishes to predominate, she began to
regret that he came.
How could I be so silly as to wish it!
Their fortune on
both sides is splendid.
There
is but one part of my conduct in the whole affair on which I do not
reflect with satisfaction; it is that I condescended to adopt the
measures of art so far as to conceal from him your sister's being in
town.
"Oh, yes!--he was to come there with Wickham, you know.
"With respect to that other, more weighty accusation, of having injured
Mr. Wickham, I can only refute it by laying before you the whole of his
connection with my family.
But I
cannot--I have never desired your good opinion, and you have certainly
bestowed it most unwillingly.
He then handed her
in, Maria followed, and the door was on the point of being closed,
when he suddenly reminded them, with some consternation, that they had
hitherto forgotten to leave any message for the ladies at Rosings.
He took the hint, and soon began with, "This seems a very comfortable
house.
If he had been so very
agreeable, he would have talked to Mrs. Long.
"How was it possible that such an idea should enter our brains?
We are not on friendly terms,
and it always gives me pain to meet him, but I have no reason for
avoiding _him_ but what I might proclaim before all the world, a sense
of very great ill-usage, and most painful regrets at his being what he
is.
I must confess myself surprised by your
application; I did not expect it from _you_.
"From Mr. Collins!
But really, and upon my
honour, I will try to do what I think to be the wisest; and now I hope
you are satisfied."
I never meant to deceive you, but my spirits might often lead me
wrong.
He then told her of Georgiana's delight in her acquaintance, and of her
disappointment at its sudden interruption; which naturally leading to
the cause of that interruption, she soon learnt that his resolution of
following her from Derbyshire in quest of her sister had been formed
before he quitted the inn, and that his gravity and thoughtfulness
there had arisen from no other struggles than what such a purpose must
comprehend.
Mrs. Gardiner, to whom the chief of this news had been given before,
in the course of Jane and Elizabeth's correspondence with her, made her
sister a slight answer, and, in compassion to her nieces, turned the
conversation.
I often tell my other girls they are
nothing to _her_.
Their society can afford no pleasure
that will atone for such wretchedness as this!
"I should like balls infinitely better," she replied, "if they were
carried on in a different manner; but there is something insufferably
tedious in the usual process of such a meeting.
A younger son, you know, must be inured to self-denial and
dependence."
"How can you contrive to write so even?"
There were
few people on whose secrecy she would have more confidently depended;
but, at the same time, there was no one whose knowledge of a sister's
frailty would have mortified her so much--not, however, from any fear
of disadvantage from it individually to herself, for, at any rate,
there seemed a gulf impassable between them.
"No--why should he?
And he had spoken in such terms of Elizabeth as to leave Georgiana
without the power of finding her otherwise than lovely and amiable.
But when her mother was gone, Jane would not be prevailed on to go down
without one of her sisters.
Then, showing
her purchases--"Look here, I have bought this bonnet.
She was a woman of mean understanding,
little information, and uncertain temper.
I cannot acquit
him of that duty; nor could I think well of the man who should omit an
occasion of testifying his respect towards anybody connected with the
family."
"Hate you!
"Let me be rightly understood.
"Write to me very often, my dear."
I hope they will not meet at all.
And, if I may mention so delicate a subject, endeavour to
check that little something, bordering on conceit and impertinence,
which your lady possesses."
With a stronger voice she soon added, "I have this comfort immediately,
that it has not been more than an error of fancy on my side, and that it
has done no harm to anyone but myself."
You refuse to obey the
claims of duty, honour, and gratitude.
All connection
between us seemed now dissolved.
"No, she would go home.
"My dear aunt, this is being serious indeed."
It was gratitude; gratitude, not merely for having once loved her,
but for loving her still well enough to forgive all the petulance and
acrimony of her manner in rejecting him, and all the unjust accusations
accompanying her rejection.
"Yes," replied Mr. Wickham; "his estate there is a noble one.
"Of a fine, stout, healthy love it may.
His character sunk on
every review of it; and as a punishment for him, as well as a possible
advantage to Jane, she seriously hoped he might really soon marry Mr.
Darcy's sister, as by Wickham's account, she would make him abundantly
regret what he had thrown away.
When they had gained their own room,
Jane, taking out the letter, said:

"This is from Caroline Bingley; what it contains has surprised me a good
deal.
"This is an evening of wonders, indeed!
We all know him to be a proud, unpleasant sort of man; but
this would be nothing if you really liked him."
she added, "by far too much.
It was acknowledged, however, that he
was a liberal man, and did much good among the poor.
The
hall, the dining-room, and all its furniture, were examined and praised;
and his commendation of everything would have touched Mrs. Bennet's
heart, but for the mortifying supposition of his viewing it all as his
own future property.
Bingley met them with hopes
that Mrs. Bennet had not found Miss Bennet worse than she expected.
Believe her to be deceived, by all means.
Now and then they were honoured with a call from her ladyship,
and nothing escaped her observation that was passing in the room during
these visits.
"My dear Mr. Bennet," said his lady to him one day, "have you heard that
Netherfield Park is let at last?"
My faults, according to this
calculation, are heavy indeed!
The subject elevated him
to more than usual solemnity of manner, and with a most important aspect
he protested that "he had never in his life witnessed such behaviour in
a person of rank--such affability and condescension, as he had himself
experienced from Lady Catherine.
It is impossible that he should still love me."
"And this," cried Darcy, as he walked with quick steps across the room,
"is your opinion of me!
what was the name of its
proprietor?
But I
dare not hope it.
You do not
know what he really is; then pray do not pain me by speaking of him in
such terms."
I have a warm, unguarded temper, and
I may have spoken my opinion _of_ him, and _to_ him, too freely.
She could have added, "A young man, too, like _you_, whose very
countenance may vouch for your being amiable"--but she contented herself
with, "and one, too, who had probably been his companion from childhood,
connected together, as I think you said, in the closest manner!"
You know not, you can
scarcely conceive, how they have tortured me;--though it was some time,
I confess, before I was reasonable enough to allow their justice."
Much had been done and much had been said
in the regiment since the preceding Wednesday; several of the officers
had dined lately with their uncle, a private had been flogged, and it
had actually been hinted that Colonel Forster was going to be married.
Is not he a charming man?
You have done all this!
Elizabeth was again deep in thought, and after a time exclaimed, "To
treat in such a manner the godson, the friend, the favourite of his
father!"
This was exactly as it should be; for the
young man wanted only regimentals to make him completely charming.
pray make haste and come into the dining-room, for
there is such a sight to be seen!
"Go, my dear," cried her mother, "and show her ladyship about the
different walks.
"And may I ask--" said Elizabeth; "but the terms, I suppose, must be
complied with."
Darcy was not of a disposition in which happiness overflows in mirth;
and Elizabeth, agitated and confused, rather _knew_ that she was happy
than _felt_ herself to be so; for, besides the immediate embarrassment,
there were other evils before her.
He
comes down on Thursday at the latest, very likely on Wednesday.
Nothing occurred
between them that could justify the hopes of his sister.
Single, my dear, to be sure!
Miss Darcy, on her brother's
entrance, exerted herself much more to talk, and Elizabeth saw that he
was anxious for his sister and herself to get acquainted, and forwarded
as much as possible, every attempt at conversation on either side.
"Whatever
can give his sister any pleasure is sure to be done in a moment.
She could have added, "A young man, too, like _you_, whose very
countenance may vouch for your being amiable"--but she contented herself
with, "and one, too, who had probably been his companion from childhood,
connected together, as I think you said, in the closest manner!"
Mr. Collins readily
assented, and a book was produced; but, on beholding it (for everything
announced it to be from a circulating library), he started back, and
begging pardon, protested that he never read novels.
Bingley and Jane, however, soon allowed the others
to outstrip them.
The church _ought_ to have been my profession--I
was brought up for the church, and I should at this time have been in
possession of a most valuable living, had it pleased the gentleman we
were speaking of just now."
What would
I give to hear your strictures on them!"
The principal
purport of his letter was to inform them that Mr. Wickham had resolved
on quitting the militia.
"It has been a very agreeable day," said Miss Bennet to Elizabeth.
"What do you mean, Hill?
You shall not defend her, though
it is Charlotte Lucas.
my dear Lydia," she cried, "when shall we meet again?"
Miss Darcy and her brother appeared, and this formidable introduction
took place.
"I had not at that time the honour of knowing any lady in the assembly
beyond my own party."
I cannot be otherwise than concerned at being the
means of injuring your amiable daughters, and beg leave to apologise for
it, as well as to assure you of my readiness to make them every possible
amends--but of this hereafter.
But on the third morning after his
arrival in Hertfordshire, she saw him, from her dressing-room window,
enter the paddock and ride towards the house.
But on the third morning after his
arrival in Hertfordshire, she saw him, from her dressing-room window,
enter the paddock and ride towards the house.
Do let the portraits of your uncle and aunt Phillips be placed
in the gallery at Pemberley.
But, however, he
did not.
How was that possible?
Where there is fortune to make the expenses of
travelling unimportant, distance becomes no evil.
"Oh!
Her nose
wants character--there is nothing marked in its lines.
I see
nothing in it but your own wilful ignorance and the malice of Mr.
If _you_ have not been mistaken here, _I_ must have been
in error.
"You are severe on us."
"Perfectly so, I thank you."
But he had
given a reason for his interference, which asked no extraordinary
stretch of belief.
certainly," cried his faithful assistant, "no one can be really
esteemed accomplished who does not greatly surpass what is usually met
with.
"It is from Miss Bingley," said Jane, and then read it aloud.
She smiled, but made no answer.
It would vex me, indeed, to see you again
the dupe of Miss Bingley's pretended regard."
He sat down for a few moments, and
then getting up, walked about the room.
"Oh!
She found that she was to receive no other answer, and, after a short
pause added:

"I think I have understood that Mr. Bingley has not much idea of ever
returning to Netherfield again?"
He was silent.
That the wish of giving happiness to you might add force to the other
inducements which led me on, I shall not attempt to deny.
How little did you
tell me of what passed at Pemberley and Lambton!
Her sisters were uneasy for her, but her mother was
delighted.
Widely
different was the effect of a second perusal.
Words were insufficient for the elevation of his feelings; and he was
obliged to walk about the room, while Elizabeth tried to unite civility
and truth in a few short sentences.
A few weeks, he believed.
Your uncle!
Will you allow
me, or do I ask too much, to introduce my sister to your acquaintance
during your stay at Lambton?"
Perhaps by and by I may
observe that private balls are much pleasanter than public ones.
Heaven and earth!--of what are
you thinking?
By all that I have
ever read, I am convinced that it is very common indeed; that human
nature is particularly prone to it, and that there are very few of us
who do not cherish a feeling of self-complacency on the score of some
quality or other, real or imaginary.
"An easy distance, do you call it?
When they get to our age, I dare say they will
not think about officers any more than we do.
Mrs. Bennet deigned not to make any reply, but, unable to contain
herself, began scolding one of her daughters.
"Elizabeth Bennet," said Miss Bingley, when the door was closed on her,
"is one of those young ladies who seek to recommend themselves to the
other sex by undervaluing their own; and with many men, I dare say, it
succeeds.
Mrs. Bennet was quite in the fidgets.
"When is
your next ball to be, Lizzy?"
I was only confused for the moment, because I felt that
I _should_ be looked at.
I will not spend my hours
in running after my neighbours every time they go away and come back
again."
Well, Colonel
Fitzwilliam, what do I play next?
I hate such false
friends.
When, after examining the mother, in whose countenance and deportment
she soon found some resemblance of Mr. Darcy, she turned her eyes on the
daughter, she could almost have joined in Maria's astonishment at her
being so thin and so small.
I declare after all there is no
enjoyment like reading!
In a softened tone she declared
herself not at all offended; but he continued to apologise for about a
quarter of an hour.
My father bears it better.
"What, is he coming home, and without poor Lydia?"
A report of a most
alarming nature reached me two days ago.
dear, yes; but you must own she is very plain.
In truth I must acknowledge
that, with all the disadvantages of this humble parsonage, I should
not think anyone abiding in it an object of compassion, while they are
sharers of our intimacy at Rosings."
But on the following morning, every hope of this
kind was done away.
Yet the misery, for which years of happiness were to offer no
compensation, received soon afterwards material relief, from observing
how much the beauty of her sister re-kindled the admiration of her
former lover.
Widely
different was the effect of a second perusal.
She is unfortunately of a sickly
constitution, which has prevented her from making that progress in many
accomplishments which she could not have otherwise failed of, as I am
informed by the lady who superintended her education, and who still
resides with them.
Or, why did he
thus come a day before he was expected?
He then shut the door, and, coming up to her, claimed the good wishes
and affection of a sister.
said he, taking the letter from
his pocket.
When
she saw him thus seeking the acquaintance and courting the good opinion
of people with whom any intercourse a few months ago would have been a
disgrace--when she saw him thus civil, not only to herself, but to the
very relations whom he had openly disdained, and recollected their last
lively scene in Hunsford Parsonage--the difference, the change was
so great, and struck so forcibly on her mind, that she could hardly
restrain her astonishment from being visible.
She hated having visitors in the house
while her health was so indifferent, and lovers were of all people the
most disagreeable.
Mr. Bennet's property consisted almost entirely in an estate of two
thousand a year, which, unfortunately for his daughters, was entailed,
in default of heirs male, on a distant relation; and their mother's
fortune, though ample for her situation in life, could but ill supply
the deficiency of his.
Well, now
let us be quite comfortable and snug, and talk and laugh all the way
home.
They are destined for each other by the voice of
every member of their respective houses; and what is to divide them?
I would keep a pack of
foxhounds, and drink a bottle of wine a day."
Jane confessed herself a little surprised at the match; but she said
less of her astonishment than of her earnest desire for their happiness;
nor could Elizabeth persuade her to consider it as improbable.
Mr. Bennet made no answer, and each of them, deep in thought, continued
silent till they reached the house.
Were it known to the rest
of my family, I should not have merely my own gratitude to express."
There were
few people on whose secrecy she would have more confidently depended;
but, at the same time, there was no one whose knowledge of a sister's
frailty would have mortified her so much--not, however, from any fear
of disadvantage from it individually to herself, for, at any rate,
there seemed a gulf impassable between them.
To complete the favourable impression, she then told him what Mr. Darcy
had voluntarily done for Lydia.
Anxiety on Jane's behalf was another prevailing concern; and Mr. Darcy's
explanation, by restoring Bingley to all her former good opinion,
heightened the sense of what Jane had lost.
repeated Elizabeth, in utter amazement.
"Most willingly."
"Well," cried Elizabeth, "have it as you choose.
"How can you be smiling so,
Lizzy?"
It is not the object of this work to give a description of Derbyshire,
nor of any of the remarkable places through which their route thither
lay; Oxford, Blenheim, Warwick, Kenilworth, Birmingham, etc.
"But it is fortunate," thought she, "that I have something to wish for.
The second began.
What a good joke
it will be!
Her
disappointment in Charlotte made her turn with fonder regard to her
sister, of whose rectitude and delicacy she was sure her opinion could
never be shaken, and for whose happiness she grew daily more anxious,
as Bingley had now been gone a week and nothing more was heard of his
return.
All that is required of you is, to assure
to your daughter, by settlement, her equal share of the five thousand
pounds secured among your children after the decease of yourself and
my sister; and, moreover, to enter into an engagement of allowing her,
during your life, one hundred pounds per annum.
As Elizabeth had no longer any interest of her own to pursue, she turned
her attention almost entirely on her sister and Mr. Bingley; and the
train of agreeable reflections which her observations gave birth to,
made her perhaps almost as happy as Jane.
Wherever you and Jane are known
you must be respected and valued; and you will not appear to less
advantage for having a couple of--or I may say, three--very silly
sisters.
Such
squeamish youths as cannot bear to be connected with a little absurdity
are not worth a regret.
It was to be such a secret!"
The
younger ones out before the elder ones are married!
She tried, however, to compose herself to
answer him with patience, when he should have done.
I am not particularly speaking of such a case as you have
supposed about Mr. Bingley.
"Yes, indeed, his friends may well rejoice in his having met with one
of the very few sensible women who would have accepted him, or have made
him happy if they had.
said he hastily, as he opened the door.
When Denny,
and Wickham, and Pratt, and two or three more of the men came in, they
did not know him in the least.
"But she does help him on, as much as her nature will allow.
"This is a wretched beginning indeed!
We must have Mrs. Long and the Gouldings soon.
From his garden, Mr. Collins would have led them round his two meadows;
but the ladies, not having shoes to encounter the remains of a white
frost, turned back; and while Sir William accompanied him, Charlotte
took her sister and friend over the house, extremely well pleased,
probably, to have the opportunity of showing it without her husband's
help.
Would to Heaven that anything
could be either said or done on my part that might offer consolation to
such distress!
Dearest
Lizzy, I hardly know what I would write, but I have bad news for you,
and it cannot be delayed.
Your
retrospections must be so totally void of reproach, that the contentment
arising from them is not of philosophy, but, what is much better, of
innocence.
Mrs. Bennet and her daughters then departed, and Elizabeth returned
instantly to Jane, leaving her own and her relations' behaviour to the
remarks of the two ladies and Mr. Darcy; the latter of whom, however,
could not be prevailed on to join in their censure of _her_, in spite of
all Miss Bingley's witticisms on _fine eyes_.
cried Elizabeth, brightening up for a moment.
how rich
and how great you will be!
But I
dare not hope it.
"I certainly have not the talent which some people possess," said Darcy,
"of conversing easily with those I have never seen before.
Yet the misery, for which years of happiness were to offer no
compensation, received soon afterwards material relief, from observing
how much the beauty of her sister re-kindled the admiration of her
former lover.
"It will be _her_ turn soon to be teased," said Miss Lucas.
--My mind, however, is now made up on the subject, for having
received ordination at Easter, I have been so fortunate as to be
distinguished by the patronage of the Right Honourable Lady Catherine de
Bourgh, widow of Sir Lewis de Bourgh, whose bounty and beneficence has
preferred me to the valuable rectory of this parish, where it shall be
my earnest endeavour to demean myself with grateful respect towards her
ladyship, and be ever ready to perform those rites and ceremonies which
are instituted by the Church of England.
You
will not thank me for detaining you from the bewitching converse of that
young lady, whose bright eyes are also upbraiding me."
If you and Miss
Bennet will defer yours till I am out of the room, I shall be very
thankful; and then you may say whatever you like of me."
I certainly _have_ had my share of beauty, but
I do not pretend to be anything extraordinary now.
The party did not supply much conversation.
I sincerely hope your Christmas in Hertfordshire may
abound in the gaieties which that season generally brings, and that your
beaux will be so numerous as to prevent your feeling the loss of the
three of whom we shall deprive you."
"Yes, sir; but I do not know when _that_ will be.
Miss Bingley made no answer, and soon afterwards she got up and walked
about the room.
Having resolved to do it without loss of time, as
his leave of absence extended only to the following Saturday, and having
no feelings of diffidence to make it distressing to himself even at
the moment, he set about it in a very orderly manner, with all the
observances, which he supposed a regular part of the business.
I must conclude, for I cannot be long from my poor
mother.
cried Miss Bingley.
There is no indignity so abhorrent to their feelings!"
Where shall you change horses?
That lady, I suppose, is your
mother."
Happiness in marriage is entirely a matter of chance.
Elizabeth had
received none since her return that could come from Pemberley.
"I should not be surprised," said Darcy, "if he were to give it up as
soon as any eligible purchase offers."
He had by that time reached it also, and, holding out a letter,
which she instinctively took, said, with a look of haughty composure,
"I have been walking in the grove some time in the hope of meeting you.
Indeed, Mr. Darcy, it is very ungenerous in you to mention all
that you knew to my disadvantage in Hertfordshire--and, give me leave to
say, very impolitic too--for it is provoking me to retaliate, and such
things may come out as will shock your relations to hear."
cried Elizabeth.
She knew but little
of their meeting in Derbyshire, and therefore felt for the awkwardness
which must attend her sister, in seeing him almost for the first time
after receiving his explanatory letter.
"You know pretty well, I suppose, what has been done for the young
people.
Jane will be quite an old maid soon, I declare.
If I were to go through the world, I could
not meet with a better.
But above all, above respect and esteem,
there was a motive within her of goodwill which could not be overlooked.
We
dressed up Chamberlayne in woman's clothes on purpose to pass for a
lady, only think what fun!
"How unlucky that you should have a reasonable answer to give, and that
I should be so reasonable as to admit it!
She longed to know what at the moment was passing in his mind--in
what manner he thought of her, and whether, in defiance of everything,
she was still dear to him.
Jane, who was not so light nor so much in the habit of running as
Elizabeth, soon lagged behind, while her sister, panting for breath,
came up with him, and eagerly cried out:

"Oh, papa, what news--what news?
If it were not allowable for him to gain _my_
affections because I had no money, what occasion could there be for
making love to a girl whom he did not care about, and who was equally
poor?"
She has the
reputation of being remarkably sensible and clever; but I rather believe
she derives part of her abilities from her rank and fortune, part from
her authoritative manner, and the rest from the pride for her
nephew, who chooses that everyone connected with him should have an
understanding of the first class."
"Of a fine, stout, healthy love it may.
Mr. Bingley intended it likewise, and
sometimes made choice of his county; but as he was now provided with a
good house and the liberty of a manor, it was doubtful to many of those
who best knew the easiness of his temper, whether he might not spend the
remainder of his days at Netherfield, and leave the next generation to
purchase.
Have you never
happened to see her there?"
He now wished it more than ever.
But what does he say of the living?"
"It is nothing in comparison of Rosings, my lady, I dare say; but I
assure you it is much larger than Sir William Lucas's."
But is it
certain--absolutely certain?"
"She will drop the acquaintance entirely."
The dinner was as well dressed as any I ever saw.
That he was _surprised_ by the
connection was evident; he sustained it, however, with fortitude, and
so far from going away, turned back with them, and entered into
conversation with Mr. Gardiner.
"My dear Mr. Bennet," replied his wife, "how can you be so tiresome!
Reflection must be
reserved for solitary hours; whenever she was alone, she gave way to it
as the greatest relief; and not a day went by without a solitary
walk, in which she might indulge in all the delight of unpleasant
recollections.
He did trace them easily to Clapham,
but no further; for on entering that place, they removed into a hackney
coach, and dismissed the chaise that brought them from Epsom.
I do not mean, however,
to assert that we can be justified in devoting too much of our time
to music, for there are certainly other things to be attended to.
Well, much good may it do them!
Mr. Darcy spoke with affectionate praise of his sister's proficiency.
"And _that_ is quite impossible; for he is now in the custody of his
friend, and Mr. Darcy would no more suffer him to call on Jane in such
a part of London!
But she
had chosen it with her eyes open; and though evidently regretting that
her visitors were to go, she did not seem to ask for compassion.
what hours of transport
we shall spend!
There was also a postscript to this effect:

"I have written to Colonel Forster to desire him to find out, if
possible, from some of the young man's intimates in the regiment,
whether Wickham has any relations or connections who would be likely to
know in what part of town he has now concealed himself.
Miss Bennet eagerly disclaimed all extraordinary merit, and threw back
the praise on her sister's warm affection.
But your
_family_ owe me nothing.
said Lydia stoutly, "I am not afraid; for though I _am_ the
youngest, I'm the tallest."
"These are heavy misfortunes," replied Elizabeth.
Not a word, however, passed his lips in allusion to it, till their
visitor took his leave for the night; but as soon as he was gone, he
turned to his daughter, and said:

"Jane, I congratulate you.
There is not one of his tenants or servants but will give
him a good name.
No, no, let me shift for myself; and, perhaps, if I have very
good luck, I may meet with another Mr. Collins in time."
He
smiled, looked handsome, and said many pretty things.
Your father would depend on _your_ resolution and
good conduct, I am sure.
Upon this signal, the youngest of
her daughters put herself forward.
Mr.
and Mrs. Gardiner had hurried back in alarm, supposing by the servant's
account that their niece was taken suddenly ill; but satisfying them
instantly on that head, she eagerly communicated the cause of their
summons, reading the two letters aloud, and dwelling on the postscript
of the last with trembling energy, though Lydia had never been a
favourite with them, Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner could not but be deeply
afflicted.
All that
is known after this is, that they were seen to continue the London road.
I am extremely glad that you have such pleasant accounts
from our friends at Hunsford.
The express was sent off directly.
And if I am that choice, why may not I accept him?"
You are
not well enough; you cannot go yourself."
The eldest
of them, a sensible, intelligent young woman, about twenty-seven, was
Elizabeth's intimate friend.
It is every way horrible!"
I do think Mrs. Long is as good
a creature as ever lived--and her nieces are very pretty behaved girls,
and not at all handsome: I like them prodigiously."
As for Mary, she was
mistress enough of herself to whisper to Elizabeth, with a countenance
of grave reflection, soon after they were seated at table:

"This is a most unfortunate affair, and will probably be much talked of.
At length, with a voice of forced calmness, he said:

"And this is all the reply which I am to have the honour of expecting!
Neither had anything occurred in the intelligence of
their Lambton friends that could materially lessen its weight.
"I like her appearance," said Elizabeth, struck with other ideas.
As we went along, Kitty and I drew up the blinds, and pretended there
was nobody in the coach; and I should have gone so all the way, if Kitty
had not been sick; and when we got to the George, I do think we behaved
very handsomely, for we treated the other three with the nicest cold
luncheon in the world, and if you would have gone, we would have treated
you too.
She was on the point of continuing her walk,
when she caught a glimpse of a gentleman within the sort of grove which
edged the park; he was moving that way; and, fearful of its being Mr.
Darcy, she was directly retreating.
You need not.
"But if you have got them to-day," said Elizabeth, "my mother's purpose
will be answered."
The only pain was in leaving her father, who would certainly miss her,
and who, when it came to the point, so little liked her going, that he
told her to write to him, and almost promised to answer her letter.
But however insincere _you_ may
choose to be, you shall not find _me_ so.
I was uncomfortable enough, I may say unhappy.
My feelings will not be
repressed.
"Are you indeed?
Perhaps not the less so from feeling a doubt
of my positive happiness had my fair cousin honoured me with her hand;
for I have often observed that resignation is never so perfect as
when the blessing denied begins to lose somewhat of its value in our
estimation.
These parties were acceptable to
all; to avoid a family circle was even more desirable to such as did
think, than such as did not.
At length the chaise arrived, the trunks were fastened on, the parcels
placed within, and it was pronounced to be ready.
I wish I could see her.
When this information was given, and they had all taken their seats, Mr.
Collins was at leisure to look around him and admire, and he was so much
struck with the size and furniture of the apartment, that he declared he
might almost have supposed himself in the small summer breakfast
parlour at Rosings; a comparison that did not at first convey much
gratification; but when Mrs. Phillips understood from him what
Rosings was, and who was its proprietor--when she had listened to the
description of only one of Lady Catherine's drawing-rooms, and found
that the chimney-piece alone had cost eight hundred pounds, she felt all
the force of the compliment, and would hardly have resented a comparison
with the housekeeper's room.
"I am sure there is not on _his_.
"And how impossible in others!"
I expected to find a more
reasonable young woman.
Mrs. Hurst and her sister allowed it to be so--but still they admired
her and liked her, and pronounced her to be a sweet girl, and one
whom they would not object to know more of.
It is settled between us already, that
we are to be the happiest couple in the world.
Jane now came up.
"Yes, my youngest is not sixteen.
"I am by no means of the opinion, I assure you," said he, "that a ball
of this kind, given by a young man of character, to respectable people,
can have any evil tendency; and I am so far from objecting to dancing
myself, that I shall hope to be honoured with the hands of all my fair
cousins in the course of the evening; and I take this opportunity of
soliciting yours, Miss Elizabeth, for the two first dances especially,
a preference which I trust my cousin Jane will attribute to the right
cause, and not to any disrespect for her."
"I know very well, madam," said he, "that when persons sit down to a
card-table, they must take their chances of these things, and happily I
am not in such circumstances as to make five shillings any object.
After sitting long enough to
admire every article of furniture in the room, from the sideboard to
the fender, to give an account of their journey, and of all that had
happened in London, Mr. Collins invited them to take a stroll in the
garden, which was large and well laid out, and to the cultivation of
which he attended himself.
How
anyone could have the conscience to entail away an estate from one's own
daughters, I cannot understand; and all for the sake of Mr. Collins too!
If she
heard me, it was by good luck, for I am sure she did not listen.
"No," replied Jane, "I have not forgotten him; but I have nothing
satisfactory to tell you.
She is the most beautiful creature I ever beheld!
I
am the happiest creature in the world.
One cannot know what a man really is by the end of a
fortnight.
The visit
was soon returned in due form.
That he should have been in love with her for
so many months!
Very
nonsensical to come at all!
"Yes, indeed, and received no inconsiderable pleasure from the sight.
She was of great use and comfort to us all.
All that is required of you is, to assure
to your daughter, by settlement, her equal share of the five thousand
pounds secured among your children after the decease of yourself and
my sister; and, moreover, to enter into an engagement of allowing her,
during your life, one hundred pounds per annum.
and it is such a
good joke, too, that you should have gone this morning and never said a
word about it till now."
Let me hear what it is."
Oh!
Elizabeth, particularly, who knew that her mother owed to the latter
the preservation of her favourite daughter from irremediable infamy,
was hurt and distressed to a most painful degree by a distinction so ill
applied.
He observed
to her, at a moment when the others were talking together, and in a tone
which had something of real regret, that it "was a very long time since
he had had the pleasure of seeing her;" and, before she could reply,
he added, "It is above eight months.
but the gentlemen will have Mr. Bingley's chaise to go to Meryton,
and the Hursts have no horses to theirs."
"She will drop the acquaintance entirely."
If you
were sensible of your own good, you would not wish to quit the sphere in
which you have been brought up."
She was dying to know what could be his
meaning?"
_She_ will not be able to help calling."
When Elizabeth had rejoiced over Wickham's departure she found little
other cause for satisfaction in the loss of the regiment.
The two ladies were delighted to see their
dear friend again, called it an age since they had met, and repeatedly
asked what she had been doing with herself since their separation.
After listening one morning to their effusions on this subject, Mr.
Bennet coolly observed:

"From all that I can collect by your manner of talking, you must be two
of the silliest girls in the country.
He was on one side of her mother.
She had only to
say in reply, that they had wandered about, till she was beyond her own
knowledge.
"Obstinate, headstrong girl!
"What you ask," said Elizabeth, "is no sacrifice on my side; and Mr.
Darcy had much better finish his letter."
Mr. Gardiner was a sensible, gentlemanlike man, greatly
superior to his sister, as well by nature as education.
"Certainly not--at first.
This letter is from Mr.
But, in my opinion, it is a paltry device, a very mean art."
James's?"
I thank you, again and again,
for not going to the Lakes.
But
I cannot find out that Jane saw anything of him in London.
"His manners are very different from his cousin's."
I am very glad you
have somebody who thinks of these things.
Her hair, so untidy, so blowsy!"
But she had no reason to fear Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner's curiosity; it was
not their wish to force her communication.
Darcy."
In Darcy's presence she dared not mention Wickham's name; but Elizabeth
instantly comprehended that he was uppermost in her thoughts; and the
various recollections connected with him gave her a moment's distress;
but exerting herself vigorously to repel the ill-natured attack, she
presently answered the question in a tolerably detached tone.
"My dear Lizzy, do not give way to such feelings as these.
The improvement
of spending a night in London was added in time, and the plan became
perfect as plan could be.
Day after
day passed away without bringing any other tidings of him than the
report which shortly prevailed in Meryton of his coming no more to
Netherfield the whole winter; a report which highly incensed Mrs.
Bennet, and which she never failed to contradict as a most scandalous
falsehood.
She was then proceeding to all the particulars of calico, muslin, and
cambric, and would shortly have dictated some very plentiful orders, had
not Jane, though with some difficulty, persuaded her to wait till her
father was at leisure to be consulted.
But _now_ suppose as much as you choose; give a loose rein to your
fancy, indulge your imagination in every possible flight which the
subject will afford, and unless you believe me actually married, you
cannot greatly err.
"Very well--and this offer of marriage you have refused?"
At that ball, while I
had the honour of dancing with you, I was first made acquainted, by Sir
William Lucas's accidental information, that Bingley's attentions to
your sister had given rise to a general expectation of their marriage.
_that_ abominable Mr. Darcy!
Are you out of your senses, to be
accepting this man?
Their visitors were not to remain above ten days with them.
To Elizabeth, however, he voluntarily acknowledged
that the necessity of his absence _had_ been self-imposed.
She felt all the perverseness of the
mischance that should bring him where no one else was brought, and, to
prevent its ever happening again, took care to inform him at first that
it was a favourite haunt of hers.
The ladies were somewhat more
fortunate, for they had the advantage of ascertaining from an upper
window that he wore a blue coat, and rode a black horse.
But what is that to me?
The feelings
of the person who wrote, and the person who received it, are now
so widely different from what they were then, that every unpleasant
circumstance attending it ought to be forgotten.
But does not Jane
correspond with his sister?
Elizabeth had heard soon after her arrival that Mr. Darcy was
expected there in the course of a few weeks, and though there were not
many of her acquaintances whom she did not prefer, his coming would
furnish one comparatively new to look at in their Rosings parties, and
she might be amused in seeing how hopeless Miss Bingley's designs on him
were, by his behaviour to his cousin, for whom he was evidently
destined by Lady Catherine, who talked of his coming with the greatest
satisfaction, spoke of him in terms of the highest admiration, and
seemed almost angry to find that he had already been frequently seen by
Miss Lucas and herself.
But whatever may be the sentiments which Mr. Wickham
has created, a suspicion of their nature shall not prevent me from
unfolding his real character--it adds even another motive.
Last Christmas you were afraid of his marrying me,
because it would be imprudent; and now, because he is trying to get
a girl with only ten thousand pounds, you want to find out that he is
mercenary."
We neither of us perform to strangers."
Jane was beyond competition her
favourite child.
"And what am I to do on the occasion?
Has she any family?"
And is
such a girl to be my nephew's sister?
"I did not know that you intended to walk," said Miss Bingley, in some
confusion, lest they had been overheard.
Jane, I take your place now, and you must go
lower, because I am a married woman."
"Read it aloud," said their father, "for I hardly know myself what it is
about."
Had his own happiness, however,
been the only sacrifice, he might have been allowed to sport with it in
whatever manner he thought best, but her sister's was involved in it, as
she thought he must be sensible himself.
Darcy, on the contrary, had seen a
collection of people in whom there was little beauty and no fashion, for
none of whom he had felt the smallest interest, and from none received
either attention or pleasure.
Mr. Collins was not a sensible man, and the deficiency of nature had
been but little assisted by education or society; the greatest part
of his life having been spent under the guidance of an illiterate and
miserly father; and though he belonged to one of the universities, he
had merely kept the necessary terms, without forming at it any useful
acquaintance.
Human nature is so prone
to fall into it!
I am sorry to say it of
them, but so it is.
She answered with equal
indifference and brevity, and the other said no more.
My dear aunt, how could you think of it?
"No, indeed, I do not wish to avoid the walk.
Her pale face and impetuous
manner made him start, and before he could recover himself to speak,
she, in whose mind every idea was superseded by Lydia's situation,
hastily exclaimed, "I beg your pardon, but I must leave you.
Is nothing due to me on that
score?
You never see a fault in anybody.
On their being joined by Mr. Bingley himself, Elizabeth withdrew
to Miss Lucas; to whose inquiry after the pleasantness of her last
partner she had scarcely replied, before Mr. Collins came up to them,
and told her with great exultation that he had just been so fortunate as
to make a most important discovery.
I
cannot understand it.
It would vex me, indeed, to see you again
the dupe of Miss Bingley's pretended regard."
"When is
your next ball to be, Lizzy?"
James's?"
The whole party were in hopes of a letter from Mr. Bennet the next
morning, but the post came in without bringing a single line from him.
Mr. Darcy is
engaged to my daughter.
It will be in my power to
assure him that her ladyship was quite well yesterday se'nnight."
Mr. Collins, however,
was not discouraged from speaking again, and Mr. Darcy's contempt seemed
abundantly increasing with the length of his second speech, and at the
end of it he only made him a slight bow, and moved another way.
"Read it aloud," said their father, "for I hardly know myself what it is
about."
But we considered it, we talked of it as impossible.
I assure you that I have long been most heartily ashamed of it."
I told my sister Phillips so the other day.
"All young ladies accomplished!
Mr. Collins no sooner saw the two
girls than he began to congratulate them on their good fortune, which
Charlotte explained by letting them know that the whole party was asked
to dine at Rosings the next day.
"This is wholly unexpected.
To Elizabeth it appeared that, had her family made an agreement to
expose themselves as much as they could during the evening, it would
have been impossible for them to play their parts with more spirit or
finer success; and happy did she think it for Bingley and her sister
that some of the exhibition had escaped his notice, and that his
feelings were not of a sort to be much distressed by the folly which he
must have witnessed.
Mrs. Bennet had so carefully provided for the entertainment
of her brother and sister, that they did not once sit down to a family
dinner.
_That_ is all settled."
When at length they arose to take leave, Mrs. Bennet was most pressingly
civil in her hope of seeing the whole family soon at Longbourn, and
addressed herself especially to Mr. Bingley, to assure him how happy he
would make them by eating a family dinner with them at any time, without
the ceremony of a formal invitation.
I rather expected, from my knowledge of her affability, that it
would happen.
When those dances
were over, she returned to Charlotte Lucas, and was in conversation with
her, when she found herself suddenly addressed by Mr. Darcy who took
her so much by surprise in his application for her hand, that,
without knowing what she did, she accepted him.
While she spoke, Wickham looked as if scarcely knowing whether to
rejoice over her words, or to distrust their meaning.
I had not the smallest idea of their being ever felt in such
a way."
She shared in their attendance on Mrs. Bennet, and was a
great comfort to them in their hours of freedom.
"On Saturday he came again.
I did not think Mrs. Gardiner
was so little to be trusted."
It was as
follows:

"MY DEAR SIR,

"I feel myself called upon, by our relationship, and my situation
in life, to condole with you on the grievous affliction you are now
suffering under, of which we were yesterday informed by a letter from
Hertfordshire.
When Mr. Bennet arrived, he had all the appearance of his usual
philosophic composure.
Mrs. Collins knew not what to make of him.
do not repeat what I then said.
"Yes, all of them, I think.
"Oh!
Mr. Bennet missed his second daughter exceedingly; his affection for her
drew him oftener from home than anything else could do.
"But if he does it any more I shall certainly let him know that I see
what he is about.
They are not married, nor can I find there
was any intention of being so; but if you are willing to perform the
engagements which I have ventured to make on your side, I hope it will
not be long before they are.
After sitting a few minutes, they were all sent to one of the windows to
admire the view, Mr. Collins attending them to point out its beauties,
and Lady Catherine kindly informing them that it was much better worth
looking at in the summer.
His sisters were fine women,
with an air of decided fashion.



It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession
of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife.
The distance is nothing
when one has a motive; only three miles.
'Lady
Catherine,' said she, 'you have given me a treasure.'
I thank you for explaining it so fully.
On his approaching them soon afterwards, though without seeming to have
any intention of speaking, Miss Lucas defied her friend to mention such
a subject to him; which immediately provoking Elizabeth to do it, she
turned to him and said:

"Did you not think, Mr. Darcy, that I expressed myself uncommonly
well just now, when I was teasing Colonel Forster to give us a ball at
Meryton?"
Mrs. Bennet's eyes sparkled.
You know my sentiments."
She longed to
speak, but could think of nothing to say; and after a short silence Mrs.
Bennet began repeating her thanks to Mr. Bingley for his kindness to
Jane, with an apology for troubling him also with Lizzy.
What congratulations will then
flow in!
She is quite a little
creature.
"What is Mr. Darcy to me, pray, that I should be afraid of him?
His appearance was greatly in his favour; he had all the best part of
beauty, a fine countenance, a good figure, and very pleasing address.
It would have spared her from
explanations and professions which it was exceedingly awkward to give;
but they were now necessary, and she assured him, with some confusion,
of her attachment to Mr. Darcy.
yes.
I will read it to you:"

"When my brother left us yesterday, he imagined that the business which
took him to London might be concluded in three or four days; but as we
are certain it cannot be so, and at the same time convinced that when
Charles gets to town he will be in no hurry to leave it again, we have
determined on following him thither, that he may not be obliged to spend
his vacant hours in a comfortless hotel.
Not that I mean to find fault with _you_, for such things
I know are all chance in this world.
"You must not be too severe upon yourself," replied Elizabeth.
"Elizabeth Bennet," said Miss Bingley, when the door was closed on her,
"is one of those young ladies who seek to recommend themselves to the
other sex by undervaluing their own; and with many men, I dare say, it
succeeds.
The visit
was soon returned in due form.
He walked here, and he walked there, fancying himself so very
great!
Her daughter endeavoured to convince her of what she
did not believe herself, that his attentions to Jane had been merely the
effect of a common and transient liking, which ceased when he saw her
no more; but though the probability of the statement was admitted at
the time, she had the same story to repeat every day.
"Oh, lord!
Mr. Collins listened to her
with the determined air of following his own inclination, and, when she
ceased speaking, replied thus:

"My dear Miss Elizabeth, I have the highest opinion in the world in
your excellent judgement in all matters within the scope of your
understanding; but permit me to say, that there must be a wide
difference between the established forms of ceremony amongst the laity,
and those which regulate the clergy; for, give me leave to observe that
I consider the clerical office as equal in point of dignity with
the highest rank in the kingdom--provided that a proper humility of
behaviour is at the same time maintained.
"Very true; and if I had my will, we should.
"My dear," replied her husband, "I have two small favours to request.
Her mother would
talk of her views in the same intelligible tone.
But, to be sure, the
good lady who showed us his house did give him a most flaming character!
She practises very constantly."
He added that Mr.
Bennet seemed wholly disinclined at present to leave London and promised
to write again very soon.
But, in my opinion, it is a paltry device, a very mean art."
"He has made me so happy," said she, one evening, "by telling me that he
was totally ignorant of my being in town last spring!
The same anxiety to get them by themselves was visible again in the
evening.
This Mrs. Younge was, he knew, intimately acquainted with
Wickham; and he went to her for intelligence of him as soon as he got to
town.
"From what we have seen of him," continued Mrs. Gardiner, "I really
should not have thought that he could have behaved in so cruel a way by
anybody as he has done by poor Wickham.
"Dearest Jane!
"With my mother up stairs.
"You must know that
though I should be exceedingly grieved at their disapprobation, I could
not hesitate."
Lydia came to us; and Wickham had constant
admission to the house.
He had,
to be sure, done much.
She could not help frequently
glancing her eye at Mr. Darcy, though every glance convinced her of what
she dreaded; for though he was not always looking at her mother, she was
convinced that his attention was invariably fixed by her.
My sole dependence was on you; and
I am sure nobody else will believe me, if you do not.
Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley both cried out against the injustice of her
implied doubt, and were both protesting that they knew many women who
answered this description, when Mr. Hurst called them to order, with
bitter complaints of their inattention to what was going forward.
Why was he to be the judge?"
After wandering along the lane for two hours, giving way to every
variety of thought--re-considering events, determining probabilities,
and reconciling herself, as well as she could, to a change so sudden and
so important, fatigue, and a recollection of her long absence, made
her at length return home; and she entered the house with the wish
of appearing cheerful as usual, and the resolution of repressing such
reflections as must make her unfit for conversation.
Does
he know his real character?"
Mr. Collins has
made an offer to Lizzy, and she will not have him."
Oh, sister!
"But why should you wish to persuade me that I feel more than I
acknowledge?"
Elizabeth had at first rather wondered that Charlotte should not prefer
the dining-parlour for common use; it was a better sized room, and had a
more pleasant aspect; but she soon saw that her friend had an excellent
reason for what she did, for Mr. Collins would undoubtedly have been
much less in his own apartment, had they sat in one equally lively; and
she gave Charlotte credit for the arrangement.
do anything rather than
marry without affection.
She was teased by
Mr. Collins, who continued most perseveringly by her side, and though
he could not prevail on her to dance with him again, put it out of her
power to dance with others.
She had a sister married to a Mr. Phillips, who had been a clerk to
their father and succeeded him in the business, and a brother settled in
London in a respectable line of trade.
I am
very, very sorry.
The families who had been in town for the winter came
back again, and summer finery and summer engagements arose.
Mr. and Mrs. Collins have a comfortable income, but not
such a one as will allow of frequent journeys--and I am persuaded my
friend would not call herself _near_ her family under less than _half_
the present distance."
"I am by no means of the opinion, I assure you," said he, "that a ball
of this kind, given by a young man of character, to respectable people,
can have any evil tendency; and I am so far from objecting to dancing
myself, that I shall hope to be honoured with the hands of all my fair
cousins in the course of the evening; and I take this opportunity of
soliciting yours, Miss Elizabeth, for the two first dances especially,
a preference which I trust my cousin Jane will attribute to the right
cause, and not to any disrespect for her."
But everybody is to
judge for themselves, and the Lucases are a very good sort of girls,
I assure you.
Miss
Bennet had slept ill, and though up, was very feverish, and not
well enough to leave her room.
Mary and Kitty were both with Mrs. Bennet: one communication
would, therefore, do for all.
Her husband allowed her to talk on without interruption while the
servants remained.
Mr. Robinson's asking him how he liked our Meryton
assemblies, and whether he did not think there were a great many
pretty women in the room, and _which_ he thought the prettiest?
Her niece was,
therefore, obliged to submit, and they took their way towards the house
on the opposite side of the river, in the nearest direction; but their
progress was slow, for Mr. Gardiner, though seldom able to indulge the
taste, was very fond of fishing, and was so much engaged in watching the
occasional appearance of some trout in the water, and talking to the
man about them, that he advanced but little.
It was a journey of only twenty-four miles, and they began it so early
as to be in Gracechurch Street by noon.
Why did you not seek legal redress?"
"I do not know.
It was a long time before she became at all reconciled to the idea of so
unsuitable a match.
"Pride," observed Mary, who piqued herself upon the solidity of her
reflections, "is a very common failing, I believe.
You
would have been less amiable in my eyes had there _not_ been this little
unwillingness; but allow me to assure you, that I have your respected
mother's permission for this address.
Elizabeth saw what he was doing, and at the first
convenient pause, turned to him with an arch smile, and said:

"You mean to frighten me, Mr. Darcy, by coming in all this state to hear
me?
Mr. Wickham's adieus were much more affectionate than his wife's.
Lady Catherine seemed pleased.
"My dear Lizzy, where can you have been walking to?"
how he must have felt it!"
"And then," said she, "if that very
improbable event should ever take place, I shall merely be able to
tell what Bingley may tell in a much more agreeable manner himself.
From herself to Jane--from Jane to Bingley, her thoughts were in a line
which soon brought to her recollection that Mr. Darcy's explanation
_there_ had appeared very insufficient, and she read it again.
He
must go somewhere, but he did not know where, and he knew he should have
nothing to live on.
It was absolutely necessary to interrupt him now.
Elizabeth
was not comfortable; that was impossible; but she was flattered and
pleased.
Pray, what is your age?"
Could he, or the Lucases, have pitched on any man within
the circle of our acquaintance, whose name would have given the lie
more effectually to what they related?
It should not be said that the Miss Bennets could
not be at home half a day before they were in pursuit of the officers.
Perhaps I am not doing her justice.
She watched him whenever they were at
Rosings, and whenever he came to Hunsford; but without much success.
"The letter shall certainly be burnt, if you believe it essential to the
preservation of my regard; but, though we have both reason to think my
opinions not entirely unalterable, they are not, I hope, quite so easily
changed as that implies."
"Oh!"
My conduct may, I fear, be objectionable in having accepted my
dismission from your daughter's lips instead of your own.
"Is this," thought Elizabeth, "meant for me?"
The walk being here
less sheltered than on the other side, allowed them to see him before
they met.
Elizabeth, feeling really anxious, was determined to go to her, though
the carriage was not to be had; and as she was no horsewoman, walking
was her only alternative.
This accounted to Elizabeth for Mr. Wickham's being among them.
Miss Bennet paused a little, and then replied, "Surely there can be no
occasion for exposing him so dreadfully.
But Mr. Gardiner could not be
seen, and Mr. Darcy found, on further inquiry, that your father was
still with him, but would quit town the next morning.
I could hardly help laughing aloud sometimes.
Does she live near you, sir?"
Miss Bingley offered her the carriage, and she only
wanted a little pressing to accept it, when Jane testified such concern
in parting with her, that Miss Bingley was obliged to convert the offer
of the chaise to an invitation to remain at Netherfield for the present.
Has he deigned to add aught of civility
to his ordinary style?--for I dare not hope," he continued in a lower
and more serious tone, "that he is improved in essentials."
At length, with a voice of forced calmness, he said:

"And this is all the reply which I am to have the honour of expecting!
He was quite young, wonderfully handsome, extremely
agreeable, and, to crown the whole, he meant to be at the next assembly
with a large party.
"What is it you mean?"
You must contrive to send somebody.
The journey would moreover give her
a peep at Jane; and, in short, as the time drew near, she would have
been very sorry for any delay.
As she spoke she observed him looking at her earnestly; and the manner
in which he immediately asked her why she supposed Miss Darcy likely to
give them any uneasiness, convinced her that she had somehow or other
got pretty near the truth.
"You know pretty well, I suppose, what has been done for the young
people.
Through letters,
whatever of good or bad was to be told would be communicated, and every
succeeding day was expected to bring some news of importance.
How much you
must have gone through!"
Of his former way of life
nothing had been known in Hertfordshire but what he told himself.
"Can such abominable pride as his have ever done him good?"
There is nothing else to be done.
Mr. Bennet, you
are wanted immediately; we are all in an uproar.
Your
idea of the ponies is delightful.
Oh!
His wish of introducing his sister to her was a compliment of
the highest kind.
"And remember that I have not much reason for supposing it to be
Bingley.
Her keenest attention was awakened; she longed to hear more, and was
grateful to her uncle for saying:

"There are very few people of whom so much can be said.
Bingley
was sure of being liked wherever he appeared, Darcy was continually
giving offense.
Young ladies of her age are sometimes a
little difficult to manage, and if she has the true Darcy spirit, she
may like to have her own way."
"_That_ you certainly shall."
When have you been prevented by want of money from going
wherever you chose, or procuring anything you had a fancy for?"
He should be particularly happy at any time, etc.
"Lizzy, you must not do so.
They were all astonished; and Mr. Bennet, who could by no means wish for
so speedy a return, immediately said:

"But is there not danger of Lady Catherine's disapprobation here, my
good sir?
Elizabeth
noticed every sentence conveying the idea of uneasiness, with an
attention which it had hardly received on the first perusal.
I was never more annoyed!
The
liberty of communication cannot be mine till it has lost all its value!"
Before they were separated by the conclusion of the play, she had the
unexpected happiness of an invitation to accompany her uncle and aunt in
a tour of pleasure which they proposed taking in the summer.
"You may possibly wonder why all this was not told you last night; but
I was not then master enough of myself to know what could or ought to
be revealed.
Then turning to Mr. Bennet, he offered himself as his antagonist at
backgammon.
"Do you really think so?"
Were it for nothing but his love of you,
I must always have esteemed him; but now, as Bingley's friend and your
husband, there can be only Bingley and yourself more dear to me.
We accordingly went--and there I readily engaged in the office
of pointing out to my friend the certain evils of such a choice.
I happened to overhear the
gentleman himself mentioning to the young lady who does the honours of
the house the names of his cousin Miss de Bourgh, and of her mother Lady
Catherine.
"I am sorry, exceedingly sorry," replied Darcy, in a tone of surprise
and emotion, "that you have ever been informed of what may, in a
mistaken light, have given you uneasiness.
_You_
think it a faithful portrait undoubtedly."
But her conclusion was false; for on the very morning after their
arrival at Lambton, these visitors came.
The letter which she wrote on this occasion to her sister will
prove what she felt.
"I hope," added Mrs. Gardiner, "that no consideration with regard to
this young man will influence her.
As a brother, a landlord, a master, she
considered how many people's happiness were in his guardianship!--how
much of pleasure or pain was it in his power to bestow!--how much of
good or evil must be done by him!
I think I have heard you say that you know them."
"I comfort myself with thinking," replied Jane, "that he certainly would
not marry Lydia if he had not a real regard for her.
But no
sooner had he made it clear to himself and his friends that she hardly
had a good feature in her face, than he began to find it was rendered
uncommonly intelligent by the beautiful expression of her dark eyes.
For your
sake," turning to Charlotte, "I am glad of it; but otherwise I see no
occasion for entailing estates from the female line.
It was evident that she was
much better acquainted with Mr. Darcy than they had before any idea of;
it was evident that he was very much in love with her.
In her own past
behaviour, there was a constant source of vexation and regret; and in
the unhappy defects of her family, a subject of yet heavier chagrin.
Her mother's ungraciousness,
made the sense of what they owed him more painful to Elizabeth's mind;
and she would, at times, have given anything to be privileged to tell
him that his kindness was neither unknown nor unfelt by the whole of the
family.
Not that I mean to find fault with _you_, for such things
I know are all chance in this world.
His sister was less delicate, and directed her eyes towards
Mr. Darcy with a very expressive smile.
Mrs. Bennet, we shall have her
at Netherfield at last.'
When the gentlemen rose to go away, Mrs. Bennet was mindful of her
intended civility, and they were invited and engaged to dine at
Longbourn in a few days time.
My feelings will not be
repressed.
Of Mr. Darcy it was now a matter of anxiety to think well; and, as far
as their acquaintance reached, there was no fault to find.
I am extremely glad that you have such pleasant accounts
from our friends at Hunsford.
how unlucky!
Their powers of conversation were considerable.
"I think you said she was a widow, sir?
It was Mr. Collins's picture of Hunsford and
Rosings rationally softened; and Elizabeth perceived that she must wait
for her own visit there to know the rest.
Kitty then owned, with a very natural
triumph on knowing more than the rest of us, that in Lydia's last letter
she had prepared her for such a step.
He does not
want abilities.
But, however, he is very welcome
to come to Netherfield, if he likes it.
I wonder that the very
pride of this Mr. Darcy has not made him just to you!
What Wickham had said of the living
was fresh in her memory, and as she recalled his very words, it was
impossible not to feel that there was gross duplicity on one side or the
other; and, for a few moments, she flattered herself that her wishes did
not err.
She was
sorry that Mr. Darcy should have delivered his sentiments in a manner so
little suited to recommend them; but still more was she grieved for the
unhappiness which her sister's refusal must have given him.
From Elizabeth's thoughts it was never absent.
Elizabeth, as they drove along, watched for the first appearance of
Pemberley Woods with some perturbation; and when at length they turned
in at the lodge, her spirits were in a high flutter.
The park was very large, and contained great variety of ground.
But his anger, I am persuaded, lasted no longer than he remained
in any doubt of your sister's sentiments.
Vanity and pride are different
things, though the words are often used synonymously.
The last-born has as good a right to the pleasures of youth
at the first.
"You are uniformly charming!"
I assure you that I have now learnt to enjoy his conversation as an
agreeable and sensible young man, without having a wish beyond it.
"You look pale.
Pardon me for neglecting to
profit by your advice, which on every other subject shall be my constant
guide, though in the case before us I consider myself more fitted by
education and habitual study to decide on what is right than a young
lady like yourself."
"And I wish my collection were larger for your benefit and my own
credit; but I am an idle fellow, and though I have not many, I have more
than I ever looked into."
* * * * *

They did not see the gentlemen again till Tuesday; and Mrs. Bennet, in
the meanwhile, was giving way to all the happy schemes, which the good
humour and common politeness of Bingley, in half an hour's visit, had
revived.
She was convinced that
she could have been happy with him, when it was no longer likely they
should meet.
She is a
very great favourite with some ladies of my acquaintance, Mrs. Hurst and
Miss Bingley.
"Don't keep coughing so, Kitty, for Heaven's sake!
"Well, well," said he, "do not make yourself unhappy.
Mr. Darcy often acknowledged himself to
be under the greatest obligations to my father's active superintendence,
and when, immediately before my father's death, Mr. Darcy gave him a
voluntary promise of providing for me, I am convinced that he felt it to
be as much a debt of gratitude to _him_, as of his affection to myself."
More thoughtfulness and less anxiety to please, than when
they last met, were plainly expressed.
"You may well be surprised, Miss Bennet, at such an assertion, after
seeing, as you probably might, the very cold manner of our meeting
yesterday.
But I am very
far from agreeing with you in your estimation of ladies in general.
"No, Lizzy, that is what I do _not_ choose.
But no
letter appeared, and she was completely puzzled.
Mr. Wickham's happiness and her own were perforce
delayed a little longer, and Mr. Collins's proposal accepted with as
good a grace as she could.
But when Elizabeth told of his silence; it did not seem very likely,
even to Charlotte's wishes, to be the case; and after various
conjectures, they could at last only suppose his visit to proceed from
the difficulty of finding anything to do, which was the more probable
from the time of year.
I shall offer to pay him to-morrow; he will rant and storm about
his love for you, and there will be an end of the matter."
Your uncle!
My temper I dare not vouch
for.
"Which do you mean?"
"He is, indeed; but, considering the inducement, my dear Miss Eliza,
we cannot wonder at his complaisance--for who would object to such a
partner?"
Every park has its beauty and its prospects; and
Elizabeth saw much to be pleased with, though she could not be in such
raptures as Mr. Collins expected the scene to inspire, and was but
slightly affected by his enumeration of the windows in front of the
house, and his relation of what the glazing altogether had originally
cost Sir Lewis de Bourgh.
The rest of his letter is only about his dear Charlotte's
situation, and his expectation of a young olive-branch.
This was invitation enough.
"It will be no use to us, if twenty such should come, since you will not
visit them."
"His misfortunes!"
But to be guarded at such a time is
very difficult.
She
concluded with many good wishes that Lady Lucas might soon be equally
fortunate, though evidently and triumphantly believing there was no
chance of it.
Oh!
It was
impossible for her to see the word without thinking of Pemberley and its
owner.
"You saw me dance at Meryton, I believe, sir."
"I would not on any
account trifle with her affectionate solicitude; or allow her to hear it
from anyone but myself.
She had been unwilling
to mention Bingley; and the unsettled state of her own feelings had made
her equally avoid the name of his friend.
But
though everything seemed neat and comfortable, she was not able to
gratify him by any sigh of repentance, and rather looked with wonder at
her friend that she could have so cheerful an air with such a companion.
This was a stroke of civility for which she was quite unprepared;
and she could hardly suppress a smile at his being now seeking the
acquaintance of some of those very people against whom his pride had
revolted in his offer to herself.
The
younger ones out before the elder ones are married!
"Do you not want to know who has taken it?"
I thank you, again and again,
for not going to the Lakes.
"And yet I meant to be uncommonly clever in taking so decided a dislike
to him, without any reason.
Whatever he said, was said well; and whatever he did, done
gracefully.
They shook hands with
great cordiality; and then, till her sister came down, she had to listen
to all he had to say of his own happiness, and of Jane's perfections;
and in spite of his being a lover, Elizabeth really believed all his
expectations of felicity to be rationally founded, because they had for
basis the excellent understanding, and super-excellent disposition of
Jane, and a general similarity of feeling and taste between her and
himself.
The power of doing anything with
quickness is always prized much by the possessor, and often without any
attention to the imperfection of the performance.
Another day I will do the same; I will sit in my
library, in my nightcap and powdering gown, and give as much trouble as
I can; or, perhaps, I may defer it till Kitty runs away."
Her answer, therefore, was not propitious, at
least not to Elizabeth's wishes, for she was impatient to get home.
Everybody is disgusted with his pride.
* * * * *

"Good gracious!"
But, however, he did not admire her at all; indeed, nobody
can, you know; and he seemed quite struck with Jane as she was going
down the dance.
"My love, should not you like to see a place of which you have heard
so much?"
I do assure you that my intimacy has
not yet taught me _that_.
In future, I hope we shall be always of one
mind."
Their eyes were
immediately wandering up in the street in quest of the officers, and
nothing less than a very smart bonnet indeed, or a really new muslin in
a shop window, could recall them.
"I admire the activity of your benevolence," observed Mary, "but every
impulse of feeling should be guided by reason; and, in my opinion,
exertion should always be in proportion to what is required."
"You cannot be more than twenty, I am sure, therefore you need not
conceal your age."
She looked at Jane, and
smiled and shook her head by turns.
He
never said a great deal, nor did she give herself the trouble of talking
or of listening much; but it struck her in the course of their third
rencontre that he was asking some odd unconnected questions--about
her pleasure in being at Hunsford, her love of solitary walks, and her
opinion of Mr. and Mrs. Collins's happiness; and that in speaking of
Rosings and her not perfectly understanding the house, he seemed to
expect that whenever she came into Kent again she would be staying
_there_ too.
When they left the high road for the lane to Hunsford, every eye was in
search of the Parsonage, and every turning expected to bring it in view.
"I like her appearance," said Elizabeth, struck with other ideas.
Miss Darcy's praise occupied
the chief of it.
"The part which I acted is now to be explained.
I am glad
he is gone.
The invitation was accepted of course, and at a proper hour they joined
the party in Lady Catherine's drawing-room.
cried Elizabeth, with the greatest satisfaction.
Colonel
Fitzwilliam's occasionally laughing at his stupidity, proved that he was
generally different, which her own knowledge of him could not have told
her; and as she would liked to have believed this change the effect
of love, and the object of that love her friend Eliza, she set herself
seriously to work to find it out.
They repulsed
every attempt of Mrs. Bennet at conversation, and by so doing threw a
languor over the whole party, which was very little relieved by the
long speeches of Mr. Collins, who was complimenting Mr. Bingley and his
sisters on the elegance of their entertainment, and the hospitality and
politeness which had marked their behaviour to their guests.
"Mr. Darcy is all politeness," said Elizabeth, smiling.
"This, madam, is a faithful narrative of every event in which we have
been concerned together; and if you do not absolutely reject it as
false, you will, I hope, acquit me henceforth of cruelty towards Mr.
Wickham.
We have reason to imagine
that his aunt, Lady Catherine de Bourgh, does not look on the match with
a friendly eye.'
She is now about Miss Elizabeth Bennet's height, or
rather taller."
They are destined for each other by the voice of
every member of their respective houses; and what is to divide them?
On applying to see the place, they were admitted into the
hall; and Elizabeth, as they waited for the housekeeper, had leisure to
wonder at her being where she was.
That is his notion of Christian
forgiveness!
A
short pause followed this speech, and Mrs. Hurst began again:

"I have an excessive regard for Miss Jane Bennet, she is really a very
sweet girl, and I wish with all my heart she were well settled.
Jane should
therefore make the most of every half-hour in which she can command his
attention.
Occupied in observing Mr. Bingley's attentions to her sister, Elizabeth
was far from suspecting that she was herself becoming an object of some
interest in the eyes of his friend.
But really, ma'am, I think it would be very hard upon
younger sisters, that they should not have their share of society and
amusement, because the elder may not have the means or inclination to
marry early.
But this idea was soon banished, and her spirits were very differently
affected, when, to her utter amazement, she saw Mr. Darcy walk into the
room.
At his own ball he
offended two or three young ladies, by not asking them to dance; and I
spoke to him twice myself, without receiving an answer.
I am joined with him in the guardianship of Miss Darcy."
When the first transports
of rage which had produced his activity in seeking her were over, he
naturally returned to all his former indolence.
and yet you can treat the mention of his misfortune with contempt and
ridicule."
GARDINER."
Mrs. Bennet, we shall have her
at Netherfield at last.'
From such a connection she could not wonder that he would shrink.
"Two offenses of a very different nature, and by no means of equal
magnitude, you last night laid to my charge.
It makes me very nervous and poorly, to be thwarted
so in my own family, and to have neighbours who think of themselves
before anybody else.
Well, well, I only hope
it will last.
"She is happy then," said her father drily; "and her residence there
will probably be of some duration."
But she is very young; she has never
been taught to think on serious subjects; and for the last half-year,
nay, for a twelvemonth--she has been given up to nothing but amusement
and vanity.
A single man of large fortune; four or
five thousand a year.
Elizabeth was the least dear to her of all her children; and though the
man and the match were quite good enough for _her_, the worth of each
was eclipsed by Mr. Bingley and Netherfield.
"If it were merely a fine house
richly furnished," said she, "I should not care about it myself; but
the grounds are delightful.
He has children
of his own, and may have more.
She had scarcely needed her
present observation to be satisfied, from the reason of things, that
their elopement had been brought on by the strength of her love, rather
than by his; and she would have wondered why, without violently caring
for her, he chose to elope with her at all, had she not felt certain
that his flight was rendered necessary by distress of circumstances; and
if that were the case, he was not the young man to resist an opportunity
of having a companion.
You are to understand, Miss Bennet, that I came
here with the determined resolution of carrying my purpose; nor will
I be dissuaded from it.
Mrs. Bennet and Lydia are going in the carriage to
Meryton.
"I desire you will do no such thing.
said Mrs. Gardiner.
Her performance was pleasing, though by no means capital.
"Yes; but he seemed to like his second better."
"If you mean Darcy," cried her brother, "he may go to bed, if he
chooses, before it begins--but as for the ball, it is quite a settled
thing; and as soon as Nicholls has made white soup enough, I shall send
round my cards."
"Can it be
possible that he will marry her?"
She became jealous of his esteem, when she could no
longer hope to be benefited by it.
"I almost envy you the pleasure, and yet I believe it would be too much
for me, or else I could take it in my way to Newcastle.
"I am grieved indeed," cried Darcy; "grieved--shocked.
such an openness and gentleness in his manner!"
"I will make no promise of the kind."
To fortune I am perfectly indifferent, and
shall make no demand of that nature on your father, since I am well
aware that it could not be complied with; and that one thousand pounds
in the four per cents, which will not be yours till after your mother's
decease, is all that you may ever be entitled to.
Her mind received knowledge which had never before fallen
in her way.
"And I certainly _never_ shall give it.
It was as
follows:

"MY DEAR SIR,

"I feel myself called upon, by our relationship, and my situation
in life, to condole with you on the grievous affliction you are now
suffering under, of which we were yesterday informed by a letter from
Hertfordshire.
Mr. Wickham
had received his commission before he left London, and he was to join
his regiment at the end of a fortnight.
There is no knowing how estates
will go when once they come to be entailed."
The wedding took place; the bride and bridegroom set off for Kent from
the church door, and everybody had as much to say, or to hear, on
the subject as usual.
My good, kind brother!
Did you see him while you were at Lambton?
Not one party, or scheme, or anything.
Collins."
At length Darcy spoke, and in a
constrained manner said, "Mr. Wickham is blessed with such happy manners
as may ensure his _making_ friends--whether he may be equally capable of
_retaining_ them, is less certain."
Mr. and Mrs. Collins have a comfortable income, but not
such a one as will allow of frequent journeys--and I am persuaded my
friend would not call herself _near_ her family under less than _half_
the present distance."
He bore it with noble indifference, and she would have imagined that
Bingley had received his sanction to be happy, had she not seen his eyes
likewise turned towards Mr. Darcy, with an expression of half-laughing
alarm.
She longed to see Mrs. Phillips, the Lucases, and
all their other neighbours, and to hear herself called "Mrs. Wickham"
by each of them; and in the mean time, she went after dinner to show her
ring, and boast of being married, to Mrs. Hill and the two housemaids.
Had it been your uncle's doing, I must and _would_ have
paid him; but these violent young lovers carry every thing their own
way.
It must be his own doing.
If _you_ have not been mistaken here, _I_ must have been
in error.
A scheme of which every part promises delight can
never be successful; and general disappointment is only warded off by
the defence of some little peculiar vexation."
When first he came in, he had spoken to her but little;
but every five minutes seemed to be giving her more of his attention.
Let me do it without further loss of time.
"Oh!
"You dislike an argument,
and want to silence this."
How are you all?"
With such rivals for the notice of the fair as Mr. Wickham and the
officers, Mr. Collins seemed to sink into insignificance; to the young
ladies he certainly was nothing; but he had still at intervals a kind
listener in Mrs. Phillips, and was by her watchfulness, most abundantly
supplied with coffee and muffin.
She dreaded lest the chambermaid had been
mistaken.
What will you think of my vanity?
"Let me first see how he behaves," said she; "it will then be early
enough for expectation."
"And you saw him frequently?"
Her curiosity, however, was unexpectedly
relieved.
Oh!
'Tis as good as a Lord!
Never, since reading Jane's second letter, had she entertained
a hope of Wickham's meaning to marry her.
"Is Miss Darcy much grown since the spring?"
He now seated himself by her, and
talked so agreeably of Kent and Hertfordshire, of travelling and staying
at home, of new books and music, that Elizabeth had never been half so
well entertained in that room before; and they conversed with so much
spirit and flow, as to draw the attention of Lady Catherine herself,
as well as of Mr. Darcy.
Mr. Collins, however,
was not discouraged from speaking again, and Mr. Darcy's contempt seemed
abundantly increasing with the length of his second speech, and at the
end of it he only made him a slight bow, and moved another way.
Kitty and Lydia take
his defection much more to heart than I do.
The principal
purport of his letter was to inform them that Mr. Wickham had resolved
on quitting the militia.
You must learn some
of my philosophy.
It is a great comfort to have you so
rich, and when you have nothing else to do, I hope you will think of us.
Her sister had not the smallest objection, and the pianoforte was
opened; and Darcy, after a few moments' recollection, was not sorry for
it.
It pains me to offend you.
I want to talk very seriously.
I did not wink at you."
In
the desperation of her feelings, she resolved on one effort more, and,
turning to Elizabeth, said:

"Miss Eliza Bennet, let me persuade you to follow my example, and take a
turn about the room.
"I see what you are feeling," replied Charlotte.
Kitty simpered and smiled, and hoped
her turn was coming soon.
said he,
with a look of doubt.
But her conclusion was false; for on the very morning after their
arrival at Lambton, these visitors came.
"If they had uncles enough to fill _all_ Cheapside," cried Bingley, "it
would not make them one jot less agreeable."
"Because you were grave and silent, and gave me no encouragement."
"Elizabeth, you are not serious now."
I am sorry to say it of
them, but so it is.
I did not know before, that I had two daughters on the brink
of matrimony.
Miss Bennet still looked all amazement.
"There is, I believe, in every disposition a tendency to some particular
evil--a natural defect, which not even the best education can overcome."
"But why all this secrecy?
This cannot be!--engaged to Mr. Darcy!
You will only think I feel _more_ than I ought to do, when I
tell you all."
The invitation was accepted of course, and at a proper hour they joined
the party in Lady Catherine's drawing-room.
In this manner Lady Catherine talked on, till they were at the door of
the carriage, when, turning hastily round, she added, "I take no leave
of you, Miss Bennet.
It was really a very
handsome thought.
Mr. Bennet made no answer.
While these
newly-born notions were passing in their heads, the perturbation of
Elizabeth's feelings was at every moment increasing.
Lady Catherine will not think the worse of you
for being simply dressed.
"Neglect!
"Heaven forbid!
"That is an
uncommon advantage, and uncommon I hope it will continue, for it would
be a great loss to _me_ to have many such acquaintances.
For my part, I am determined never to speak
of it again to anybody.
At five o'clock the two ladies retired to dress, and at half-past six
Elizabeth was summoned to dinner.
"Heaven forbid!
No, no, let me shift for myself; and, perhaps, if I have very
good luck, I may meet with another Mr. Collins in time."
Mrs. Bennet said only, "Nonsense,
nonsense!"
However,
I recollected afterwards that if he had been prevented going, the
wedding need not be put off, for Mr. Darcy might have done as well."
"And they _must_ marry!
"Yes," replied Darcy, who could contain himself no longer, "but _that_
was only when I first saw her, for it is many months since I have
considered her as one of the handsomest women of my acquaintance."
It is natural that obligation should
be felt, and if I could _feel_ gratitude, I would now thank you.
Be so kind as to apologise for us to Miss Darcy.
There was no one, therefore,
who could be pointed out as likely to give any news of him.
Elizabeth's astonishment was beyond expression.
It will be in my power to
assure him that her ladyship was quite well yesterday se'nnight."
* * * * *

Mr. Gardiner soon wrote again to his brother.
But the person who advanced was now
near enough to see her, and stepping forward with eagerness, pronounced
her name.
And you may be certain when I have the honour of
seeing her again, I shall speak in the very highest terms of your
modesty, economy, and other amiable qualification."
His consenting to
marry her is a proof, I will believe, that he is come to a right way of
thinking.
"For heaven's sake, madam, speak lower.
Kitty, who took all these threats in a serious light, began to cry.
Nothing could give either Bingley or myself more
delight.
Intimate
as you are, you must know how it is to be done."
Mrs. Gardiner and her niece,
however, did her justice, and pitied her.
He would scarcely be ten pounds a year the loser by the
hundred that was to be paid them; for, what with her board and pocket
allowance, and the continual presents in money which passed to her
through her mother's hands, Lydia's expenses had been very little within
that sum.
"But what is to be done about Pemberley?"
The distinction had perhaps been felt too strongly.
He thought too well of himself to comprehend on what motives his cousin
could refuse him; and though his pride was hurt, he suffered in no other
way.
She saw the indelicacy of putting
himself forward as he had done, and the inconsistency of his professions
with his conduct.
Well, but now for
my news; it is about dear Wickham; too good for the waiter, is it not?
Mr. Darcy, you must allow
me to present this young lady to you as a very desirable partner.
_You_
think it a faithful portrait undoubtedly."
When the tea-things were removed, and the card-tables placed, the ladies
all rose, and Elizabeth was then hoping to be soon joined by him,
when all her views were overthrown by seeing him fall a victim to her
mother's rapacity for whist players, and in a few moments after seated
with the rest of the party.
Oh, Lydia!"
"Well, so much the better.
Thoughtlessness,
want of attention to other people's feelings, and want of resolution,
will do the business."
Last Christmas you were afraid of his marrying me,
because it would be imprudent; and now, because he is trying to get
a girl with only ten thousand pounds, you want to find out that he is
mercenary."
Had Elizabeth been at leisure
to be idle, she would have remained certain that all employment was
impossible to one so wretched as herself; but she had her share of
business as well as her aunt, and amongst the rest there were notes to
be written to all their friends at Lambton, with false excuses for their
sudden departure.
And
Lady Lucas has been very kind; she walked here on Wednesday morning to
condole with us, and offered her services, or any of her daughters', if
they should be of use to us."
How are you all?"
do not repeat what I then said.
You have sense, and we all
expect you to use it.
"That would be a good scheme," said Elizabeth, "if you were sure that
they would not offer to send her home."
Mrs. Wickham!
"And never allow yourself to be blinded by prejudice?"
The horses
were post; and neither the carriage, nor the livery of the servant who
preceded it, were familiar to them.
Mr. Bennet, in equal silence, was enjoying the scene.
"This is not to be borne.
But from the severity of that blame which was last
night so liberally bestowed, respecting each circumstance, I shall hope
to be in the future secured, when the following account of my actions
and their motives has been read.
Do let the portraits of your uncle and aunt Phillips be placed
in the gallery at Pemberley.
They have a sharp, shrewish look, which I do
not like at all; and in her air altogether there is a self-sufficiency
without fashion, which is intolerable."
The two gentlemen left Rosings the next morning, and Mr. Collins having
been in waiting near the lodges, to make them his parting obeisance, was
able to bring home the pleasing intelligence, of their appearing in very
good health, and in as tolerable spirits as could be expected, after the
melancholy scene so lately gone through at Rosings.
To persuade him against returning into
Hertfordshire, when that conviction had been given, was scarcely the
work of a moment.
He repeated the question, with some
surprise at her silence.
"I should like balls infinitely better," she replied, "if they were
carried on in a different manner; but there is something insufferably
tedious in the usual process of such a meeting.
Her eldest daughter endeavoured to give some relief to the violence of
these transports, by leading her thoughts to the obligations which Mr.
Gardiner's behaviour laid them all under.
Such
doings discomposed Mr. Bennet exceedingly.
On the contrary, every particular
relative to his sister was meant to be kept as much as possible to
myself; and if I endeavour to undeceive people as to the rest of his
conduct, who will believe me?
The officers will find
women better worth their notice.
And, besides, no traces of them were to be found on the
Barnet road."
Won't it, Kitty?"
"Indeed you are mistaken.
What will Wickham say?
"Not, perhaps, of neglecting his own interest; but of every other
neglect I can believe him capable.
But
I cannot find out that Jane saw anything of him in London.
Oh!
He knows where we live.
I am glad
he is gone.
As he quitted the room, Elizabeth felt how improbable it was that they
should ever see each other again on such terms of cordiality as
had marked their several meetings in Derbyshire; and as she threw a
retrospective glance over the whole of their acquaintance, so full
of contradictions and varieties, sighed at the perverseness of those
feelings which would now have promoted its continuance, and would
formerly have rejoiced in its termination.
I thought I should have died.
Make haste, make haste.
Miss Bingley offered her the carriage, and she only
wanted a little pressing to accept it, when Jane testified such concern
in parting with her, that Miss Bingley was obliged to convert the offer
of the chaise to an invitation to remain at Netherfield for the present.
I talked to her repeatedly in the most
serious manner, representing to her all the wickedness of what she had
done, and all the unhappiness she had brought on her family.
At present, however, I consider myself as quite fixed here."
I longed
to know whether he would be married in his blue coat."
I wish you very happy and very rich, and by
refusing your hand, do all in my power to prevent your being otherwise.
The park was very large, and contained great variety of ground.
"Already arisen?"
And
though he exclaimed at the term, she found that it had been pretty much
the case.
You are to understand, Miss Bennet, that I came
here with the determined resolution of carrying my purpose; nor will
I be dissuaded from it.
Our
distress, my dear Lizzy, is very great.
"To yield without conviction is no compliment to the understanding of
either."
He added that Mr.
Bennet seemed wholly disinclined at present to leave London and promised
to write again very soon.
He had been some days
in town, before he was able to discover them; but he had something to
direct his search, which was more than _we_ had; and the consciousness
of this was another reason for his resolving to follow us.
She saw herself the object of attention, to tens and to scores of them
at present unknown.
Mr. Bingley will not be detained in London by
them."
I declare after all there is no
enjoyment like reading!
His
friend had left him that morning for London, but was to return home in
ten days time.
My resolution of
thanking you for your kindness to Lydia had certainly great effect.
I should never be happy without him, so think
it no harm to be off.
It only shows her being
deficient in something herself--sense or feeling."
Mrs. Gardiner looked at her niece with a smile, but Elizabeth could not
return it.
"And then when you go away, you may leave one or two of my sisters
behind you; and I dare say I shall get husbands for them before the
winter is over."
I now give it to _you_, if you are resolved on
having him.
The subject elevated him
to more than usual solemnity of manner, and with a most important aspect
he protested that "he had never in his life witnessed such behaviour in
a person of rank--such affability and condescension, as he had himself
experienced from Lady Catherine.
There was no one, therefore,
who could be pointed out as likely to give any news of him.
"'After mentioning the likelihood of this marriage to her ladyship last
night, she immediately, with her usual condescension, expressed what she
felt on the occasion; when it became apparent, that on the score of some
family objections on the part of my cousin, she would never give her
consent to what she termed so disgraceful a match.
I depend on you for that."
Every sentence of
kindness was a fresh source of happiness to Jane.
Will you tell me
how long you have loved him?"
Mr. Wickham was the happy man towards whom almost every female eye was
turned, and Elizabeth was the happy woman by whom he finally seated
himself; and the agreeable manner in which he immediately fell into
conversation, though it was only on its being a wet night, made her feel
that the commonest, dullest, most threadbare topic might be rendered
interesting by the skill of the speaker.
For such an attachment
as this she might have sufficient charms; and though she did not suppose
Lydia to be deliberately engaging in an elopement without the intention
of marriage, she had no difficulty in believing that neither her virtue
nor her understanding would preserve her from falling an easy prey.
And this consideration leads
me moreover to reflect, with augmented satisfaction, on a certain event
of last November; for had it been otherwise, I must have been involved
in all your sorrow and disgrace.
"I must now mention a circumstance which I would wish to forget myself,
and which no obligation less than the present should induce me to unfold
to any human being.
"But what," said she, after a pause, "can have been his motive?
Has it not been
industriously circulated by yourselves?
Wretched, wretched mistake!"
"I have already told her so once, by your desire."
"Yes, he went on Tuesday, as I wrote you word."
Perhaps this
concealment, this disguise was beneath me; it is done, however, and it
was done for the best.
Her feelings as she read were scarcely to be defined.
"This is a parade," he cried, "which does one good; it gives such an
elegance to misfortune!
Mrs. Jenkinson was chiefly employed in watching how little
Miss de Bourgh ate, pressing her to try some other dish, and fearing
she was indisposed.
They are destined for each other by the voice of
every member of their respective houses; and what is to divide them?
If your
feelings are still what they were last April, tell me so at once.
Mr. Collins's return into Hertfordshire was no longer a matter of
pleasure to Mrs. Bennet.
Elizabeth thought this was going pretty far; and she
listened with increasing astonishment as the housekeeper added, "I have
never known a cross word from him in my life, and I have known him ever
since he was four years old."
She replied in the affirmative.
and it was not wholly without foundation.
They insist also on my seeing Mr.
Jones--therefore do not be alarmed if you should hear of his having been
to me--and, excepting a sore throat and headache, there is not much the
matter with me.--Yours, etc."
There is no danger of Wickham's marrying Mary King.
"Yes--if Darcy does not put it off again.
Elizabeth could not but be pleased,
could not but triumph.
About a year ago, she was taken from school, and an establishment formed
for her in London; and last summer she went with the lady who presided
over it, to Ramsgate; and thither also went Mr. Wickham, undoubtedly by
design; for there proved to have been a prior acquaintance between him
and Mrs. Younge, in whose character we were most unhappily deceived; and
by her connivance and aid, he so far recommended himself to Georgiana,
whose affectionate heart retained a strong impression of his kindness to
her as a child, that she was persuaded to believe herself in love, and
to consent to an elopement.
"How despicably I have acted!"
"I do not recollect that we did."
He addressed
himself to Miss Bennet, with a polite congratulation; Mr. Hurst also
made her a slight bow, and said he was "very glad;" but diffuseness
and warmth remained for Bingley's salutation.
The first part of Mrs. Gardiner's business on her arrival was to
distribute her presents and describe the newest fashions.
All that
is known after this is, that they were seen to continue the London road.
This has been my motive, my fair cousin, and
I flatter myself it will not sink me in your esteem.
Your
retrospections must be so totally void of reproach, that the contentment
arising from them is not of philosophy, but, what is much better, of
innocence.
Her brother's
recommendation was enough to ensure her favour; his judgement could not
err.
If there is
no other objection to my marrying your nephew, I shall certainly not
be kept from it by knowing that his mother and aunt wished him to
marry Miss de Bourgh.
He
had always intended to visit him, though to the last always assuring
his wife that he should not go; and till the evening after the visit was
paid she had no knowledge of it.
In Meryton they parted; the two youngest repaired to the lodgings of one
of the officers' wives, and Elizabeth continued her walk alone, crossing
field after field at a quick pace, jumping over stiles and springing
over puddles with impatient activity, and finding herself at last
within view of the house, with weary ankles, dirty stockings, and a face
glowing with the warmth of exercise.
If _she_ does not object to it,
why should _we_?"
If
the dispositions of the parties are ever so well known to each other or
ever so similar beforehand, it does not advance their felicity in the
least.
"But if I do not take your likeness now, I may never have another
opportunity."
She then sought her eldest sister, who has undertaken to make
inquiries on the same subject of Bingley.
Elizabeth awoke the next morning to the same thoughts and meditations
which had at length closed her eyes.
What a contrast between him and his friend!
"Lady Catherine has been of infinite use, which ought to make her happy,
for she loves to be of use.
Lydia was exceedingly fond of him.
They were soon gone again, rising from their seats with an
activity which took their brother by surprise, and hurrying off as if
eager to escape from Mrs. Bennet's civilities.
Lizzy, you must walk out with him again, that he may not be in Bingley's
way."
Where does discretion end,
and avarice begin?
And is it really true?
"You make me laugh, Charlotte; but it is not sound.
It settled the matter; and they pursued the accustomed circuit; which
brought them again, after some time, in a descent among hanging woods,
to the edge of the water, and one of its narrowest parts.
You will not find
him more favourably spoken of by anyone."
"I deserve neither such praise nor such censure," cried Elizabeth; "I am
_not_ a great reader, and I have pleasure in many things."
When she was discontented,
she fancied herself nervous.
He has been
accused of many faults at different times, but _this_ is the true one.
She
could not win him, however, to any conversation; he merely answered her
question, and read on.
"I have found out," said he, "by a singular accident, that there is now
in the room a near relation of my patroness.
She will be down in a moment, I dare say."
But when she read and re-read with the closest attention, the
particulars immediately following of Wickham's resigning all pretensions
to the living, of his receiving in lieu so considerable a sum as three
thousand pounds, again was she forced to hesitate.
You will find her manners beyond
anything I can describe; and your wit and vivacity, I think, must be
acceptable to her, especially when tempered with the silence and
respect which her rank will inevitably excite.
Well, and so
just as the carriage came to the door, my uncle was called away upon
business to that horrid man Mr. Stone.
When the engagement was for home, some of the officers always
made part of it--of which officers Mr. Wickham was sure to be one; and
on these occasions, Mrs. Gardiner, rendered suspicious by Elizabeth's
warm commendation, narrowly observed them both.
She had already learnt that Lady Catherine was still in the country.
As they passed through the
hall, Lady Catherine opened the doors into the dining-parlour and
drawing-room, and pronouncing them, after a short survey, to be decent
looking rooms, walked on.
Lady Catherine seemed resigned.
"I almost envy you the pleasure, and yet I believe it would be too much
for me, or else I could take it in my way to Newcastle.
Oh that he had sprained his ankle in the first dance!"
Jane had already written a few lines to her sister to announce their
safe arrival in London; and when she wrote again, Elizabeth hoped it
would be in her power to say something of the Bingleys.
Mrs. Gardiner abused her stupidity.
She could not imagine what business he could have in town
so soon after his arrival in Hertfordshire; and she began to fear that
he might be always flying about from one place to another, and never
settled at Netherfield as he ought to be.
Miss Darcy and her brother appeared, and this formidable introduction
took place.
"The letter, perhaps, began in bitterness, but it did not end so.
Bromley, of course.
"Why, at that rate, you will have been here only six weeks.
You had much better
dance."
I have met with two instances lately, one I will not mention; the
other is Charlotte's marriage.
Elizabeth replied very concisely that she was.
Day after
day passed away without bringing any other tidings of him than the
report which shortly prevailed in Meryton of his coming no more to
Netherfield the whole winter; a report which highly incensed Mrs.
Bennet, and which she never failed to contradict as a most scandalous
falsehood.
"What a letter is this, to be written at such a moment!
Had he done his duty in that
respect, Lydia need not have been indebted to her uncle for whatever
of honour or credit could now be purchased for her.
"In marrying your nephew, I should not consider myself as quitting that
sphere.
It is useless to talk of it."
Mr. Bennet's emotions were much more tranquil on the occasion, and such
as he did experience he pronounced to be of a most agreeable sort; for
it gratified him, he said, to discover that Charlotte Lucas, whom he had
been used to think tolerably sensible, was as foolish as his wife, and
more foolish than his daughter!
He made no answer, and they were again silent till they had gone down
the dance, when he asked her if she and her sisters did not very often
walk to Meryton.
She was in no humour for conversation with anyone but himself; and to
him she had hardly courage to speak.
The letter was to this
effect:

"MY DEAR LIZZY,

"I wish you joy.
I
described, and enforced them earnestly.
We acted with the best intentions."
Accordingly, when she retired at night, she asked the chambermaid
whether Pemberley were not a very fine place?
I cannot find
out that I hate her at all, or that I am in the least unwilling to
think her a very good sort of girl.
"I can answer your question," said Fitzwilliam, "without applying to
him.
The same anxiety to get them by themselves was visible again in the
evening.
The least agreeable circumstance in the business
was the surprise it must occasion to Elizabeth Bennet, whose friendship
she valued beyond that of any other person.
To Mrs. Gardiner, Wickham had one means of affording pleasure,
unconnected with his general powers.
Allow me to say, Lady Catherine, that the arguments with which you have
supported this extraordinary application have been as frivolous as the
application was ill-judged.
"I can comprehend your going on charmingly, when
you had once made a beginning; but what could set you off in the first
place?"
Her performance on the pianoforte is exquisite."
And a
special licence.
She then hastened away to her mother, who had purposely broken up the
card party, and was sitting up stairs with Kitty.
"And do you like her?"
After an affectionate
parting between the friends, Elizabeth was attended to the carriage by
Mr. Collins, and as they walked down the garden he was commissioning her
with his best respects to all her family, not forgetting his thanks
for the kindness he had received at Longbourn in the winter, and his
compliments to Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner, though unknown.
A woman must have a thorough knowledge of music, singing, drawing,
dancing, and the modern languages, to deserve the word; and besides
all this, she must possess a certain something in her air and manner of
walking, the tone of her voice, her address and expressions, or the word
will be but half-deserved."
You must, therefore, pardon the freedom with which I demand
your attention; your feelings, I know, will bestow it unwillingly, but I
demand it of your justice.
She was a woman of mean understanding,
little information, and uncertain temper.
Jane looked at Elizabeth with surprise and concern.
"You may possibly wonder why all this was not told you last night; but
I was not then master enough of myself to know what could or ought to
be revealed.
He replied, and was again
silent.
Elizabeth was watchful enough to
see it all, but she could see it and write of it without material pain.
"I am going
to open the instrument, Eliza, and you know what follows."
Mrs. Bennet, accompanied by her
two youngest girls, reached Netherfield soon after the family breakfast.
But as no such delicacy restrained her mother,
an hour seldom passed in which she did not talk of Bingley, express her
impatience for his arrival, or even require Jane to confess that if he
did not come back she would think herself very ill used.
Every girl in or near Meryton was out of her senses about him for
the first two months; but he never distinguished _her_ by any particular
attention; and, consequently, after a moderate period of extravagant and
wild admiration, her fancy for him gave way, and others of the regiment,
who treated her with more distinction, again became her favourites."
I do not know of any
other designs that he had formed; but he was in such a hurry to be gone,
and his spirits so greatly discomposed, that I had difficulty in finding
out even so much as this."
But so they always are.
Do let the portraits of your uncle and aunt Phillips be placed
in the gallery at Pemberley.
Your profusion
makes me saving; and if you lament over him much longer, my heart will
be as light as a feather."
He did not judge
your father to be a person whom he could so properly consult as your
uncle, and therefore readily postponed seeing him till after the
departure of the former.
As a child, she was affectionate and pleasing, and extremely fond
of me; and I have devoted hours and hours to her amusement.
You
will easily comprehend, from these particulars, that Mr. Wickham's
circumstances are not so hopeless as they are generally believed to be.
"I see what you are feeling," replied Charlotte.
"Yes, indeed, and received no inconsiderable pleasure from the sight.
"But what is to be done about Pemberley?"
Follies and nonsense, whims and inconsistencies, _do_ divert me, I own,
and I laugh at them whenever I can.
the
happiest, wisest, most reasonable end!"
You deserve
no such attention.
But we are all
liable to error.
I was not in a humour
to wait for any opening of yours.
It is a pity they are not handsome!
Lady Catherine will not think the worse of you
for being simply dressed.
That it would be done with such trifling exertion on his side, too, was
another very welcome surprise; for his wish at present was to have as
little trouble in the business as possible.
It was plain to them all that Colonel Fitzwilliam came because he
had pleasure in their society, a persuasion which of course recommended
him still more; and Elizabeth was reminded by her own satisfaction in
being with him, as well as by his evident admiration of her, of her
former favourite George Wickham; and though, in comparing them, she saw
there was less captivating softness in Colonel Fitzwilliam's manners,
she believed he might have the best informed mind.
She
certainly did not hate him.
Miss Bingley
succeeded no less in the real object of her civility; Mr. Darcy looked
up.
"Upon my word," said Mrs. Gardiner, "I begin to be of your uncle's
opinion.
I could not
allow myself to conceal that your sister had been in town three months
last winter, that I had known it, and purposely kept it from him.
She danced next with an officer, and had the refreshment of talking of
Wickham, and of hearing that he was universally liked.
"Upon my word," said her ladyship, "you give your opinion very decidedly
for so young a person.
On distinguishing the
ladies of the group, the two gentlemen came directly towards them, and
began the usual civilities.
She replied in the affirmative.
Their brother is a pleasant gentlemanlike man--he
is a great friend of Darcy's."
She rated his abilities much higher than any of the others; there was
a solidity in his reflections which often struck her, and though by no
means so clever as herself, she thought that if encouraged to read
and improve himself by such an example as hers, he might become a very
agreeable companion.
With respect to Wickham, the travellers soon found that he was not held
there in much estimation; for though the chief of his concerns with the
son of his patron were imperfectly understood, it was yet a well-known
fact that, on his quitting Derbyshire, he had left many debts behind
him, which Mr. Darcy afterwards discharged.
She knew not the exact degree of his affection for his
aunt, or his dependence on her judgment, but it was natural to suppose
that he thought much higher of her ladyship than _she_ could do; and it
was certain that, in enumerating the miseries of a marriage with _one_,
whose immediate connections were so unequal to his own, his aunt would
address him on his weakest side.
She burst into tears as she alluded to it, and for a few minutes could
not speak another word.
Elizabeth will soon
be the wife of Mr. Darcy.
I
am glad it occurred to me to mention it; for it would really be
discreditable to _you_ to let them go alone."
I was angry perhaps at first, but my anger soon began to take
a proper direction."
As he spoke there was a sort of smile which Elizabeth fancied she
understood; he must be supposing her to be thinking of Jane and
Netherfield, and she blushed as she answered:

"I do not mean to say that a woman may not be settled too near her
family.
"Mr. Collins appears to be very fortunate in his choice of a wife."
But if _we_ do not venture somebody else will; and after all,
Mrs. Long and her neices must stand their chance; and, therefore, as
she will think it an act of kindness, if you decline the office, I will
take it on myself."
But such as they were, it may well be supposed how eagerly
she went through them, and what a contrariety of emotion they excited.
I certainly _have_ had my share of beauty, but
I do not pretend to be anything extraordinary now.
"Certainly, my dear, nobody said there were; but as to not meeting
with many people in this neighbourhood, I believe there are few
neighbourhoods larger.
"That is capital," added her sister, and they both laughed heartily.
"Undoubtedly.
Mrs. Bennet and Kitty walked off, and as soon as
they were gone, Mr. Collins began.
In Darcy's presence she dared not mention Wickham's name; but Elizabeth
instantly comprehended that he was uppermost in her thoughts; and the
various recollections connected with him gave her a moment's distress;
but exerting herself vigorously to repel the ill-natured attack, she
presently answered the question in a tolerably detached tone.
As it principally concerns yourself, you ought to know its
contents.
What are you telling Miss Bennet?
While settling this point, she was suddenly roused by the sound of the
door-bell, and her spirits were a little fluttered by the idea of its
being Colonel Fitzwilliam himself, who had once before called late in
the evening, and might now come to inquire particularly after her.
Lady Lucas was a very good kind of woman, not too clever to be a
valuable neighbour to Mrs. Bennet.
As for myself, it is
many, many years since I first began to think of him in a very different
manner.
They returned, therefore, in good
spirits to Longbourn, the village where they lived, and of which they
were the principal inhabitants.
Yet now I must believe you," cried
Jane.
A most welcome negative followed the last question--and her
alarms now being removed, she was at leisure to feel a great deal of
curiosity to see the house herself; and when the subject was revived the
next morning, and she was again applied to, could readily answer, and
with a proper air of indifference, that she had not really any dislike
to the scheme.
But before I am run away with by my feelings on this
subject, perhaps it would be advisable for me to state my reasons for
marrying--and, moreover, for coming into Hertfordshire with the design
of selecting a wife, as I certainly did."
"I cannot pretend to be sorry," said Wickham, after a short
interruption, "that he or that any man should not be estimated beyond
their deserts; but with _him_ I believe it does not often happen.
Oh!
Had Lydia's marriage been
concluded on the most honourable terms, it was not to be supposed that
Mr. Darcy would connect himself with a family where, to every other
objection, would now be added an alliance and relationship of the
nearest kind with a man whom he so justly scorned.
They were
all of them warm in their admiration; and at that moment she felt that
to be mistress of Pemberley might be something!
It was reasonable that he should feel he had been
wrong; he had liberality, and he had the means of exercising it; and
though she would not place herself as his principal inducement, she
could, perhaps, believe that remaining partiality for her might assist
his endeavours in a cause where her peace of mind must be materially
concerned.
Nor was her respect for him, though it made her more quiet, at all
likely to make her more elegant.
Things are settled so
oddly."
It pains me to offend you.
The discussion of Mr. Collins's offer was now nearly at an end, and
Elizabeth had only to suffer from the uncomfortable feelings necessarily
attending it, and occasionally from some peevish allusions of her
mother.
But Bingley has great
natural modesty, with a stronger dependence on my judgement than on his
own.
Long before it had taken place my opinion of you was
decided.
It vexed
her to see him expose himself to such a man.
"Not, perhaps, of neglecting his own interest; but of every other
neglect I can believe him capable.
I have not been at all able to account
for the honour of seeing you here."
"I am perfectly convinced by it that Mr. Darcy has no defect.
Her eldest daughter endeavoured to give some relief to the violence of
these transports, by leading her thoughts to the obligations which Mr.
Gardiner's behaviour laid them all under.
And, gathering her work together, she was hastening
away, when Elizabeth called out:

"Dear madam, do not go.
Elizabeth could not but smile at such a conclusion of such a beginning,
but Mrs. Bennet, who had persuaded herself that her husband regarded the
affair as she wished, was excessively disappointed.
She stared, coloured,
doubted, and was silent.
"That is a question which Mr. Darcy only can answer."
"Very true, indeed; and now, my dear Jane, what have you got to say on
behalf of the interested people who have probably been concerned in the
business?
To his
tacit engagement with Miss de Bourgh?
"Shall we ask your cousin the reason of this?"
Soon after you
left me on Saturday, I was fortunate enough to find out in what part of
London they were.
But the
case is this: We are not rich enough or grand enough for them; and she
is the more anxious to get Miss Darcy for her brother, from the notion
that when there has been _one_ intermarriage, she may have less trouble
in achieving a second; in which there is certainly some ingenuity, and
I dare say it would succeed, if Miss de Bourgh were out of the way.
Put them next to your great-uncle the
judge.
When I last saw her, she was not very promising.
and to see dear Wickham too!
It was reasonable that he should feel he had been
wrong; he had liberality, and he had the means of exercising it; and
though she would not place herself as his principal inducement, she
could, perhaps, believe that remaining partiality for her might assist
his endeavours in a cause where her peace of mind must be materially
concerned.
Give me further particulars.
You alluded to something else.
But however insincere _you_ may
choose to be, you shall not find _me_ so.
"I never heard anything so
abominable.
Had the late Mr. Darcy liked me
less, his son might have borne with me better; but his father's uncommon
attachment to me irritated him, I believe, very early in life.
I roused, and
interested you, because I was so unlike _them_.
"When I consider," she added in a yet
more agitated voice, "that I might have prevented it!
"That is as it happens.
I assure you that I have long been most heartily ashamed of it."
I am excessively attentive to all those
things.
When she thought of
her mother, her confidence gave way a little; but she would not allow
that any objections _there_ had material weight with Mr. Darcy, whose
pride, she was convinced, would receive a deeper wound from the want of
importance in his friend's connections, than from their want of sense;
and she was quite decided, at last, that he had been partly governed
by this worst kind of pride, and partly by the wish of retaining Mr.
Bingley for his sister.
how I wanted you!"
A deeper shade of _hauteur_ overspread his
features, but he said not a word, and Elizabeth, though blaming herself
for her own weakness, could not go on.
Lady Catherine was a tall, large woman, with strongly-marked
features, which might once have been handsome.
"And remember that I have not much reason for supposing it to be
Bingley.
And there are other
circumstances which I am not at liberty--which it is not worth while to
relate; but his lies about the whole Pemberley family are endless.
Happiness in marriage is entirely a matter of chance.
"I have just had a letter from Jane,
with such dreadful news.
To such perseverance in wilful self-deception Elizabeth would make
no reply, and immediately and in silence withdrew; determined, if
he persisted in considering her repeated refusals as flattering
encouragement, to apply to her father, whose negative might be uttered
in such a manner as to be decisive, and whose behaviour at least could
not be mistaken for the affectation and coquetry of an elegant female.
I only
fear that the sort of cautiousness to which you, I imagine, have been
alluding, is merely adopted on his visits to his aunt, of whose good
opinion and judgement he stands much in awe.
"Yes, or I will never see her again."
I know it all; that the young man's marrying her was a
patched-up business, at the expence of your father and uncles.
"I hope, my dear," said Mr. Bennet to his wife, as they were at
breakfast the next morning, "that you have ordered a good dinner to-day,
because I have reason to expect an addition to our family party."
"I have, sir."
But
Lizzy, you have been very sly, very reserved with me.
Lord bless me!
To fortune I am perfectly indifferent, and
shall make no demand of that nature on your father, since I am well
aware that it could not be complied with; and that one thousand pounds
in the four per cents, which will not be yours till after your mother's
decease, is all that you may ever be entitled to.
The rest of his letter is only about his dear Charlotte's
situation, and his expectation of a young olive-branch.
It was the favourite wish of
_his_ mother, as well as of hers.
You _are_ a gentleman's daughter.
All was joy and
kindness.
There were
few people on whose secrecy she would have more confidently depended;
but, at the same time, there was no one whose knowledge of a sister's
frailty would have mortified her so much--not, however, from any fear
of disadvantage from it individually to herself, for, at any rate,
there seemed a gulf impassable between them.
Whilst wandering on in this
slow manner, they were again surprised, and Elizabeth's astonishment
was quite equal to what it had been at first, by the sight of Mr. Darcy
approaching them, and at no great distance.
I have not _that_ pain.
My total
ignorance of the connection must plead my apology."
At length, with a voice of forced calmness, he said:

"And this is all the reply which I am to have the honour of expecting!
"Whatever I do is done in a hurry," replied he; "and therefore if I
should resolve to quit Netherfield, I should probably be off in five
minutes.
"What, has she frightened away
some of your lovers?
I had often seen him in love before.
Her ladyship's carriage is regularly ordered for us.
I always had a value for him.
If his own vanity, however, did not mislead him, _he_ was
the cause, his pride and caprice were the cause, of all that Jane had
suffered, and still continued to suffer.
"You must not be too severe upon yourself," replied Elizabeth.
I
was given good principles, but left to follow them in pride and conceit.
"I will go to Meryton," said she, "as soon as I am dressed, and tell the
good, good news to my sister Philips.
Elizabeth had frequently
united with Jane in an endeavour to check the imprudence of Catherine
and Lydia; but while they were supported by their mother's indulgence,
what chance could there be of improvement?
Mr. Bingley had not been of
age two years, when he was tempted by an accidental recommendation
to look at Netherfield House.
The letter which she wrote on this occasion to her sister will
prove what she felt.
To this question his daughter replied only with a laugh; and as it had
been asked without the least suspicion, she was not distressed by
his repeating it.
A
short pause followed this speech, and Mrs. Hurst began again:

"I have an excessive regard for Miss Jane Bennet, she is really a very
sweet girl, and I wish with all my heart she were well settled.
As it happened that Elizabeth had _much_ rather not, she endeavoured in
her answer to put an end to every entreaty and expectation of the kind.
Mr. Gardiner did not attempt to conceal these particulars
from the Longbourn family.
Her astonishment, however, was extreme, and
continually was she repeating, "Why is he so altered?
"Come here, child," cried her father as she appeared.
I knew it myself, as it was known to Miss Bingley; but her
brother is even yet ignorant of it.
"Probably not; but Mr. Darcy can please where he chooses.
"I am sick of Mr. Bingley," cried his wife.
The world has been deceived in that respect; and I am happy to say there
will be some little money, even when all his debts are discharged, to
settle on my niece, in addition to her own fortune.
"This is no very striking resemblance of your own character, I am sure,"
said he.
She stood several minutes before the picture, in earnest
contemplation, and returned to it again before they quitted the gallery.
Brighton, and a whole
campful of soldiers, to us, who have been overset already by one poor
regiment of militia, and the monthly balls of Meryton!"
"There were some very strong objections against the lady," were Colonel
Fitzwilliam's words; and those strong objections probably were, her
having one uncle who was a country attorney, and another who was in
business in London.
Colonel Fitzwilliam seemed really glad to see them; anything was a
welcome relief to him at Rosings; and Mrs. Collins's pretty friend had
moreover caught his fancy very much.
But of this answer Lydia heard not a word.
They could have
been understood only by her mother, who might have felt nearly the same.
Mr. Wickham
had received his commission before he left London, and he was to join
his regiment at the end of a fortnight.
She had never heard of him before his
entrance into the ----shire Militia, in which he had engaged at the
persuasion of the young man who, on meeting him accidentally in town,
had there renewed a slight acquaintance.
They could talk of nothing but officers; and
Mr. Bingley's large fortune, the mention of which gave animation
to their mother, was worthless in their eyes when opposed to the
regimentals of an ensign.
But what does he say of the living?"
"Wickham, perhaps,
is my favourite; but I think I shall like _your_ husband quite as well
as Jane's."
But do you think she
would be prevailed upon to go back with us?
Your mother will never see you
again if you do _not_ marry Mr. Collins, and I will never see you again
if you _do_."
She was
sorry that Mr. Darcy should have delivered his sentiments in a manner so
little suited to recommend them; but still more was she grieved for the
unhappiness which her sister's refusal must have given him.
I shall go distracted."
All were struck with the
stranger's air, all wondered who he could be; and Kitty and Lydia,
determined if possible to find out, led the way across the street, under
pretense of wanting something in an opposite shop, and fortunately
had just gained the pavement when the two gentlemen, turning back, had
reached the same spot.
Every time
they met, it was more decided and remarkable.
Only look at her.
That she should receive an offer of
marriage from Mr. Darcy!
said Mrs. Bennet, shaking her head, "then she is better off than
many girls.
"Well, my dear," said Mr. Bennet, when Elizabeth had read the note
aloud, "if your daughter should have a dangerous fit of illness--if she
should die, it would be a comfort to know that it was all in pursuit of
Mr. Bingley, and under your orders."
So high and so conceited that there was no enduring
him!
But Mr. Bennet was not of
a disposition to seek comfort for the disappointment which his own
imprudence had brought on, in any of those pleasures which too often
console the unfortunate for their folly or their vice.
At
present I will say nothing about it."
This was a sad omen of what her mother's behaviour to the gentleman
himself might be; and Elizabeth found that, though in the certain
possession of his warmest affection, and secure of her relations'
consent, there was still something to be wished for.
Elizabeth could not but be pleased,
could not but triumph.
There
is nothing he would not do for her."
"Already arisen?"
He
comes down on Thursday at the latest, very likely on Wednesday.
"You are a very strange creature by way of a friend!--always wanting me
to play and sing before anybody and everybody!
There
can be no occasion for your going so soon.
It must be his own doing.
What a delightful library you have at
Pemberley, Mr.
But,
though this might be imaginary, she could not be deceived as to his
behaviour to Miss Darcy, who had been set up as a rival to Jane.
On entering the room, he seemed to
hesitate; but Jane happened to look round, and happened to smile: it was
decided.
Bingley had never met with more pleasant people or
prettier girls in his life; everybody had been most kind and attentive
to him; there had been no formality, no stiffness; he had soon felt
acquainted with all the room; and, as to Miss Bennet, he could not
conceive an angel more beautiful.
I _will_ leave him to himself."
The entertainment of dining at Rosings was repeated about twice a week;
and, allowing for the loss of Sir William, and there being only one
card-table in the evening, every such entertainment was the counterpart
of the first.
It
was, on the contrary, exactly calculated to make her understand her own
wishes; and never had she so honestly felt that she could have loved
him, as now, when all love must be vain.
Console Lady Catherine as well as you can.
Oh!
Mr.
Hurst had therefore nothing to do, but to stretch himself on one of the
sofas and go to sleep.
"This fine account of him," whispered her aunt as they walked, "is not
quite consistent with his behaviour to our poor friend."
It was first broken by Mrs. Annesley, a
genteel, agreeable-looking woman, whose endeavour to introduce some kind
of discourse proved her to be more truly well-bred than either of the
others; and between her and Mrs. Gardiner, with occasional help from
Elizabeth, the conversation was carried on.
A most welcome negative followed the last question--and her
alarms now being removed, she was at leisure to feel a great deal of
curiosity to see the house herself; and when the subject was revived the
next morning, and she was again applied to, could readily answer, and
with a proper air of indifference, that she had not really any dislike
to the scheme.
And even when it was
settled that Lydia should go with Mrs. Forster, the necessity of opening
her eyes to his character never occurred to me.
She had already learnt that Lady Catherine was still in the country.
"Will you give me leave to defer your raptures till I write again?
The kindness of my uncle and aunt can never
be requited.
She is now about Miss Elizabeth Bennet's height, or
rather taller."
Is this to be endured!
"I do not get on at all.
In describing to her all the grandeur of Lady Catherine and her mansion,
with occasional digressions in praise of his own humble abode, and
the improvements it was receiving, he was happily employed until the
gentlemen joined them; and he found in Mrs. Phillips a very attentive
listener, whose opinion of his consequence increased with what she
heard, and who was resolving to retail it all among her neighbours as
soon as she could.
"Can you deny that you have done it?"
The son was to join
in cutting off the entail, as soon as he should be of age, and the widow
and younger children would by that means be provided for.
and with the
knowledge of your ill opinion, too!
"I had not been long in Hertfordshire, before I saw, in common with
others, that Bingley preferred your elder sister to any other young
woman in the country.
She respected, she esteemed, she was grateful to him,
she felt a real interest in his welfare; and she only wanted to know how
far she wished that welfare to depend upon herself, and how far it would
be for the happiness of both that she should employ the power, which her
fancy told her she still possessed, of bringing on her the renewal of
his addresses.
"You may as well call it impertinence at once.
He had certainly formed such a plan, and without
meaning that it should affect his endeavour to separate him from Miss
Bennet, it is probable that it might add something to his lively concern
for the welfare of his friend.
"And Mary King is safe!"
I have great hopes of finding him quite the
reverse.
In a softened tone she declared
herself not at all offended; but he continued to apologise for about a
quarter of an hour.
And it was settled that we should all be there by eleven
o'clock.
Is not this an agreeable surprise?"
I know it to be impossible."
Elizabeth had mentioned her
name to her mother on her ladyship's entrance, though no request of
introduction had been made.
"This is the consequence, you see, Madam, of marrying a daughter," said
Elizabeth.
"Well girls," said she, as soon as they were left to themselves, "What
say you to the day?
Elizabeth quietly answered "Undoubtedly;" and after an awkward pause,
they returned to the rest of the family.
Mrs. Bennet, in short, was in very great spirits; she had seen enough of
Bingley's behaviour to Jane, to be convinced that she would get him at
last; and her expectations of advantage to her family, when in a happy
humour, were so far beyond reason, that she was quite disappointed at
not seeing him there again the next day, to make his proposals.
I
am glad it occurred to me to mention it; for it would really be
discreditable to _you_ to let them go alone."
"The first wish of my heart," said she to herself, "is never more to
be in company with either of them.
Of having another daughter married to Mr. Collins, she thought
with equal certainty, and with considerable, though not equal, pleasure.
I am impatient to see him."
As it was certain, however, that
somebody was coming, Bingley instantly prevailed on Miss Bennet to avoid
the confinement of such an intrusion, and walk away with him into the
shrubbery.
I scarcely know anyone who cannot do all this, and I am sure
I never heard a young lady spoken of for the first time, without being
informed that she was very accomplished."
After
pausing on this point a considerable while, she once more continued to
read.
They have at
least that advantage."
_He_ shall be
mercenary, and _she_ shall be foolish."
Conceal the unhappy truth as
long as it is possible, I know it cannot be long."
But Mr. Gardiner could not be
seen, and Mr. Darcy found, on further inquiry, that your father was
still with him, but would quit town the next morning.
Mrs. Reynolds informed them that it had been taken in his father's
lifetime.
"It must have been his sister's doing.
Though he had
detected with a critical eye more than one failure of perfect symmetry
in her form, he was forced to acknowledge her figure to be light and
pleasing; and in spite of his asserting that her manners were not those
of the fashionable world, he was caught by their easy playfulness.
"And do you impute it to either of those?"
Well, how pleased I am!
As soon as they entered the copse, Lady Catherine began in the following
manner:--

"You can be at no loss, Miss Bennet, to understand the reason of my
journey hither.
This information made Elizabeth smile, as she thought of poor Miss
Bingley.
"Not so much as I could wish, sir; but I dare say he may spend half his
time here; and Miss Darcy is always down for the summer months."
Elizabeth was now most heartily sorry that she had, from the distress of
the moment, been led to make Mr. Darcy acquainted with their fears for
her sister; for since her marriage would so shortly give the
proper termination to the elopement, they might hope to conceal its
unfavourable beginning from all those who were not immediately on the
spot.
In spite of having been at St. James's Sir William was so completely
awed by the grandeur surrounding him, that he had but just courage
enough to make a very low bow, and take his seat without saying a word;
and his daughter, frightened almost out of her senses, sat on the edge
of her chair, not knowing which way to look.
"Oh!
His countenance, voice, and manner had
established him at once in the possession of every virtue.
Lady Catherine seemed resigned.
She turned from sister to sister, demanding their
congratulations; and when at length they all sat down, looked eagerly
round the room, took notice of some little alteration in it, and
observed, with a laugh, that it was a great while since she had been
there.
Miss Bingley made no answer, and soon afterwards she got up and walked
about the room.
Every object in the next day's journey was new and interesting to
Elizabeth; and her spirits were in a state of enjoyment; for she had
seen her sister looking so well as to banish all fear for her health,
and the prospect of her northern tour was a constant source of delight.
Heaven and earth!--of what are
you thinking?
Things are settled so
oddly."
You know it is not
sound, and that you would never act in this way yourself."
It was absolutely necessary to interrupt him now.
"Oh!
Have you not heard me say that from his earliest
hours he was destined for his cousin?"
"Mr. Darcy is all politeness," said Elizabeth, smiling.
His reception, however, was of the most flattering kind.
When she did come, it was very evident that
she had no pleasure in it; she made a slight, formal apology, for not
calling before, said not a word of wishing to see me again, and was
in every respect so altered a creature, that when she went away I was
perfectly resolved to continue the acquaintance no longer.
Lydia does not leave me because she is married,
but only because her husband's regiment happens to be so far off.
In this house they were received by Miss Darcy, who was sitting there
with Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley, and the lady with whom she lived in
London.
It was absolutely necessary to interrupt him now.
I am going to-morrow
where I shall find a man who has not one agreeable quality, who has
neither manner nor sense to recommend him.
The tumult of Elizabeth's mind was allayed by this conversation.
When
Darcy returned to the saloon, Miss Bingley could not help repeating to
him some part of what she had been saying to his sister.
"True; and nobody can ever be introduced in a ball-room.
"Take whatever you like, and get away."
"Bingley."
She
soon learnt that they were indebted for their present good understanding
to the efforts of his aunt, who did call on him in her return through
London, and there relate her journey to Longbourn, its motive, and the
substance of her conversation with Elizabeth; dwelling emphatically on
every expression of the latter which, in her ladyship's apprehension,
peculiarly denoted her perverseness and assurance; in the belief that
such a relation must assist her endeavours to obtain that promise
from her nephew which she had refused to give.
"You must give me leave to flatter myself, my dear cousin, that your
refusal of my addresses is merely words of course.
Her thoughts were instantly
driven back to the time when Mr. Bingley's name had been the last
mentioned between them; and, if she might judge by his complexion, _his_
mind was not very differently engaged.
"Has your governess left you?"
I was not in a humour
to wait for any opening of yours.
Mrs.
Bennet was diffuse in her good wishes for the felicity of her daughter,
and impressive in her injunctions that she should not miss the
opportunity of enjoying herself as much as possible--advice which
there was every reason to believe would be well attended to; and in
the clamorous happiness of Lydia herself in bidding farewell, the more
gentle adieus of her sisters were uttered without being heard.
A younger son, you know, must be inured to self-denial and
dependence."
The reason why all
this was to be done by him alone, was such as I have given above.
"Most willingly."
The day passed much as the day before had done.
A few days after this visit, Mr. Bingley called again, and alone.
Lady Lucas began directly to calculate, with more
interest than the matter had ever excited before, how many years longer
Mr. Bennet was likely to live; and Sir William gave it as his decided
opinion, that whenever Mr. Collins should be in possession of the
Longbourn estate, it would be highly expedient that both he and his wife
should make their appearance at St. James's.
"And yet I meant to be uncommonly clever in taking so decided a dislike
to him, without any reason.
"For we must attribute this happy conclusion," she added, "in a great
measure to his kindness.
"Yes I have had a letter from him by express."
"Whatever my connections may be," said Elizabeth, "if your nephew does
not object to them, they can be nothing to _you_."
I cannot be otherwise than concerned at being the
means of injuring your amiable daughters, and beg leave to apologise for
it, as well as to assure you of my readiness to make them every possible
amends--but of this hereafter.
Sometimes one
officer, sometimes another, had been her favourite, as their attentions
raised them in her opinion.
She had obtained private intelligence that Mr.
Darcy did not wish for cards; and Mr. Hurst soon found even his open
petition rejected.
Let _our_
first effusions be less insupportable than those of the generality of
travellers."
I am very sensible of the honour of
your proposals, but it is impossible for me to do otherwise than to
decline them."
can it be really so!
Elizabeth accepted their company, and the three young ladies set off
together.
Has he deigned to add aught of civility
to his ordinary style?--for I dare not hope," he continued in a lower
and more serious tone, "that he is improved in essentials."
"I should be sorry indeed, if it were.
Elizabeth had been a good deal disappointed in not finding a letter from
Jane on their first arrival at Lambton; and this disappointment had been
renewed on each of the mornings that had now been spent there; but
on the third her repining was over, and her sister justified, by the
receipt of two letters from her at once, on one of which was marked that
it had been missent elsewhere.
He has not an ill-natured look.
This
gallantry was not much to the taste of some of his hearers; but Mrs.
Bennet, who quarreled with no compliments, answered most readily.
The arrival of letters
was the grand object of every morning's impatience.
It was some consolation
to think that his visit to Rosings was to end on the day after the
next--and, a still greater, that in less than a fortnight she should
herself be with Jane again, and enabled to contribute to the recovery of
her spirits, by all that affection could do.
She had fully proposed being
engaged by Mr. Wickham for those very dances; and to have Mr. Collins
instead!
He saw Wickham, and
afterwards insisted on seeing Lydia.
We accordingly went--and there I readily engaged in the office
of pointing out to my friend the certain evils of such a choice.
My temper I dare not vouch
for.
But
I have an aunt, too, who must not be longer neglected."
"You are uniformly charming!"
I did not believe
her to be indifferent because I wished it; I believed it on impartial
conviction, as truly as I wished it in reason.
Tell him I hope he will excuse me when he knows all; and tell him I will
dance with him at the next ball we meet, with great pleasure.
Good gracious!
She
is not such a simpleton.
But, however, he
did not.
"Impossible, Mr. Bennet, impossible, when I am not acquainted with him
myself; how can you be so teasing?"
"The person of whom I speak is a gentleman, and a stranger."
There is a mixture of servility and self-importance in his
letter, which promises well.
Nothing could give either Bingley or myself more
delight.
She expressed her gratitude again, but it was too painful a subject to
each, to be dwelt on farther.
The officers will find
women better worth their notice.
Then turning to Mr. Bennet, he offered himself as his antagonist at
backgammon.
The day passed much as the day before had done.
He knows where we live.
The general prejudice against Mr. Darcy
is so violent, that it would be the death of half the good people in
Meryton to attempt to place him in an amiable light.
I shall write again as soon as
anything more is determined on.
Kitty owned that
she had rather stay at home.
The little Gardiners, attracted by the sight of a chaise, were standing
on the steps of the house as they entered the paddock; and, when the
carriage drove up to the door, the joyful surprise that lighted up their
faces, and displayed itself over their whole bodies, in a variety of
capers and frisks, was the first pleasing earnest of their welcome.
Miss Bennet still looked all amazement.
His being such a charming young man, and so rich, and living but
three miles from them, were the first points of self-gratulation; and
then it was such a comfort to think how fond the two sisters were of
Jane, and to be certain that they must desire the connection as much as
she could do.
"She did, indeed, Louisa.
Darcy made no answer.
Pray write instantly, and let me understand it--unless it is,
for very cogent reasons, to remain in the secrecy which Lydia seems
to think necessary; and then I must endeavour to be satisfied with
ignorance."
She
certainly did not hate him.
_Too much_, I am afraid; for what becomes of the moral, if our comfort
springs from a breach of promise?
In another minute, Mr. Bingley, but without seeming to have noticed what
passed, took leave and rode on with his friend.
In a short time I shall have a daughter married.
it is just as he chooses.
Jane, who was not so light nor so much in the habit of running as
Elizabeth, soon lagged behind, while her sister, panting for breath,
came up with him, and eagerly cried out:

"Oh, papa, what news--what news?
At length the chaise arrived, the trunks were fastened on, the parcels
placed within, and it was pronounced to be ready.
A young man, such
as you describe Mr. Bingley, so easily falls in love with a pretty girl
for a few weeks, and when accident separates them, so easily forgets
her, that these sort of inconsistencies are very frequent."
Jane had sent Caroline an early answer to her letter, and was counting
the days till she might reasonably hope to hear again.
I do assure you that I am not
one of those young ladies (if such young ladies there are) who are so
daring as to risk their happiness on the chance of being asked a second
time.
He had some intention, he added, of studying
law, and I must be aware that the interest of one thousand pounds would
be a very insufficient support therein.
Elizabeth, though expecting no less, thanked
him with tears of gratitude; and all three being actuated by one spirit,
everything relating to their journey was speedily settled.
I do not mean, however,
to assert that we can be justified in devoting too much of our time
to music, for there are certainly other things to be attended to.
I wonder who first
discovered the efficacy of poetry in driving away love!"
Some people call him proud; but I am sure I never saw
anything of it.
My avowed one, or what I avowed to
myself, was to see whether your sister were still partial to Bingley,
and if she were, to make the confession to him which I have since made."
"Indeed, Jane, you ought to believe me.
I will write to my sister Gardiner about
them directly.
"I do not blame Jane," she continued, "for Jane would have got Mr.
Bingley if she could.
While in their cradles, we planned
the union: and now, at the moment when the wishes of both sisters would
be accomplished in their marriage, to be prevented by a young woman of
inferior birth, of no importance in the world, and wholly unallied to
the family!
The whole of what Elizabeth had already
heard, his claims on Mr. Darcy, and all that he had suffered from him,
was now openly acknowledged and publicly canvassed; and everybody was
pleased to know how much they had always disliked Mr. Darcy before they
had known anything of the matter.
"Yes, she did."
If it was
not for the entail, I should not mind it."
Almost as
soon as I entered the house, I singled you out as the companion of
my future life.
To his wife he was very little otherwise indebted, than as
her ignorance and folly had contributed to his amusement.
Till this moment I never knew myself."
Some time hence it will be all found out,
and then we may laugh at their stupidity in not knowing it before.
Their fortune on
both sides is splendid.
Her mother stepped forwards, embraced her, and
welcomed her with rapture; gave her hand, with an affectionate smile,
to Wickham, who followed his lady; and wished them both joy with an
alacrity which shewed no doubt of their happiness.
"How I long to see her again!
This roused a general astonishment; and he had the pleasure of being
eagerly questioned by his wife and his five daughters at once.
But when the gentlemen entered, Jane was no longer the first object;
Miss Bingley's eyes were instantly turned toward Darcy, and she had
something to say to him before he had advanced many steps.
If
the dispositions of the parties are ever so well known to each other or
ever so similar beforehand, it does not advance their felicity in the
least.
"Will it not be advisable, before we proceed on this subject, to
arrange with rather more precision the degree of importance which is to
appertain to this request, as well as the degree of intimacy subsisting
between the parties?"
They will
ruin your happiness.
To Rosings he then
hastened, to console Lady Catherine and her daughter; and on his return
brought back, with great satisfaction, a message from her ladyship,
importing that she felt herself so dull as to make her very desirous of
having them all to dine with her.
It soothed,
but it could not console her for the contempt which had thus been
self-attracted by the rest of her family; and as she considered
that Jane's disappointment had in fact been the work of her nearest
relations, and reflected how materially the credit of both must be hurt
by such impropriety of conduct, she felt depressed beyond anything she
had ever known before.
"Is Miss Darcy much grown since the spring?"
The whist party soon afterwards breaking up, the players gathered round
the other table and Mr. Collins took his station between his cousin
Elizabeth and Mrs. Phillips.
"Come here, child," cried her father as she appeared.
Our
distress, my dear Lizzy, is very great.
"It is only evident that Miss Bingley does not mean that he _should_."
His sisters were anxious for his having an estate of his own; but,
though he was now only established as a tenant, Miss Bingley was by no
means unwilling to preside at his table--nor was Mrs. Hurst, who had
married a man of more fashion than fortune, less disposed to consider
his house as her home when it suited her.
My sole dependence was on you; and
I am sure nobody else will believe me, if you do not.
"Yes, indeed, and received no inconsiderable pleasure from the sight.
They went to the library,
therefore, and asked their father whether he would not wish them to make
it known to her.
She saw
instantly that her cousin's manners were not altered by his marriage;
his formal civility was just what it had been, and he detained her some
minutes at the gate to hear and satisfy his inquiries after all her
family.
"I have not the smallest objection to explaining them," said he, as soon
as she allowed him to speak.
As she went
up stairs to get ready, Mrs. Bennet followed her, saying:

"I am quite sorry, Lizzy, that you should be forced to have that
disagreeable man all to yourself.
I have not been in the habit of brooking disappointment."
He now seated himself by her, and
talked so agreeably of Kent and Hertfordshire, of travelling and staying
at home, of new books and music, that Elizabeth had never been half so
well entertained in that room before; and they conversed with so much
spirit and flow, as to draw the attention of Lady Catherine herself,
as well as of Mr. Darcy.
They contained no actual complaint, nor was there any
revival of past occurrences, or any communication of present suffering.
His father, Miss Bennet, the late Mr. Darcy, was one of the best men
that ever breathed, and the truest friend I ever had; and I can never
be in company with this Mr. Darcy without being grieved to the soul by
a thousand tender recollections.
What can
have induced him to behave so cruelly?"
It was
impossible for her to see the word without thinking of Pemberley and its
owner.
Where there is fortune to make the expenses of
travelling unimportant, distance becomes no evil.
"How many letters you must have occasion to write in the course of a
year!
I had narrowly observed her during the two visits
which I had lately made here; and I was convinced of her affection."
On the strength of Darcy's regard, Bingley
had the firmest reliance, and of his judgement the highest opinion.
As for
their mother, Mr. Collins's letter had done away much of her ill-will,
and she was preparing to see him with a degree of composure which
astonished her husband and daughters.
"It is nothing in comparison of Rosings, my lady, I dare say; but I
assure you it is much larger than Sir William Lucas's."
Her resistance had not
injured her with the gentleman, and he was thinking of her with some
complacency, when thus accosted by Miss Bingley:

"I can guess the subject of your reverie."
But to live in ignorance on such a point was impossible; or at least
it was impossible not to try for information.
You
see how continually we are engaged there.
"Obstinate, headstrong girl!
"A man who has once been refused!
He addressed
himself to Miss Bennet, with a polite congratulation; Mr. Hurst also
made her a slight bow, and said he was "very glad;" but diffuseness
and warmth remained for Bingley's salutation.
His cousin was as absurd
as he had hoped, and he listened to him with the keenest enjoyment,
maintaining at the same time the most resolute composure of countenance,
and, except in an occasional glance at Elizabeth, requiring no partner
in his pleasure.
Do you not consider that a connection with you
must disgrace him in the eyes of everybody?"
"Whatever
can give his sister any pleasure is sure to be done in a moment.
Do your sisters play and sing?"
I shall tell Colonel
Forster it will be quite a shame if he does not."
"But upon my honour, I do _not_.
GARDINER."
Her own thoughts were employing her.
Elizabeth's courage did not fail her.
In a few minutes she was joined by Bingley, whose conference with her
father had been short and to the purpose.
But
I will not repine.
But his anger, I am persuaded, lasted no longer than he remained
in any doubt of your sister's sentiments.
But amidst your concern
for the defects of your nearest relations, and your displeasure at this
representation of them, let it give you consolation to consider that, to
have conducted yourselves so as to avoid any share of the like censure,
is praise no less generally bestowed on you and your elder sister, than
it is honourable to the sense and disposition of both.
They both set off, and the conjectures of the remaining three
continued, though with little satisfaction, till the door was thrown
open and their visitor entered.
But I
cannot--I have never desired your good opinion, and you have certainly
bestowed it most unwillingly.
Maria thought speaking out of the question, and the
gentlemen did nothing but eat and admire.
I hope they will not meet at all.
"By all means," cried Bingley; "let us hear all the particulars, not
forgetting their comparative height and size; for that will have more
weight in the argument, Miss Bennet, than you may be aware of.
"My dear aunt, this is being serious indeed."
She sat intently at work, striving to be composed, and without daring to
lift up her eyes, till anxious curiosity carried them to the face of
her sister as the servant was approaching the door.
He is not at all liked in
Hertfordshire.
You
taught me a lesson, hard indeed at first, but most advantageous.
"If it was to be secret," said Jane, "say not another word on the
subject.
My dear Charles, what do you mean?"
"Would Mr. Darcy then consider the rashness of your original intentions
as atoned for by your obstinacy in adhering to it?"
All that is required of you is, to assure
to your daughter, by settlement, her equal share of the five thousand
pounds secured among your children after the decease of yourself and
my sister; and, moreover, to enter into an engagement of allowing her,
during your life, one hundred pounds per annum.
The very last evening was spent
there; and her ladyship again inquired minutely into the particulars of
their journey, gave them directions as to the best method of packing,
and was so urgent on the necessity of placing gowns in the only right
way, that Maria thought herself obliged, on her return, to undo all the
work of the morning, and pack her trunk afresh.
"But I hope there is no strong attachment on either side," said Jane.
Scarcely a syllable was
uttered that did not relate to the game, except when Mrs. Jenkinson
expressed her fears of Miss de Bourgh's being too hot or too cold, or
having too much or too little light.
"He is now gone into the army," she added;
"but I am afraid he has turned out very wild."
When alone with Elizabeth afterwards, she spoke more on the subject.
His regard for her was quite imaginary; and the possibility of her
deserving her mother's reproach prevented his feeling any regret.
He had followed them purposely to town, he had taken on himself all
the trouble and mortification attendant on such a research; in which
supplication had been necessary to a woman whom he must abominate and
despise, and where he was reduced to meet, frequently meet, reason
with, persuade, and finally bribe, the man whom he always most wished to
avoid, and whose very name it was punishment to him to pronounce.
What is your opinion?"
She looked at
Jane, to see how she bore it; but Jane was very composedly talking to
Bingley.
Were the whole arrangement complete, my disappointment would be certain.
"Of Mr. Collins and Lizzy.
Elizabeth was shocked to think that, however incapable of such
coarseness of _expression_ herself, the coarseness of the _sentiment_
was little other than her own breast had harboured and fancied liberal!
"I did not know that you intended to walk," said Miss Bingley, in some
confusion, lest they had been overheard.
Oh!
I would keep a pack of
foxhounds, and drink a bottle of wine a day."
Are any of your
younger sisters out, Miss Bennet?"
It was the favourite wish of
_his_ mother, as well as of hers.
Mr. Collins, to be sure, was neither sensible
nor agreeable; his society was irksome, and his attachment to her must
be imaginary.
I can hardly write for laughing.
And now do, when you get to town, find them out,
wherever they may be; and if they are not married already, _make_ them
marry.
But pride--where there is a real
superiority of mind, pride will be always under good regulation."
"That is capital," added her sister, and they both laughed heartily.
There
are undoubtedly many who could not say the same, but thanks to Lady
Catherine de Bourgh, I am removed far beyond the necessity of regarding
little matters."
What is it about?
My temper
would perhaps be called resentful.
I have a warm, unguarded temper, and
I may have spoken my opinion _of_ him, and _to_ him, too freely.
We
shall be at Newcastle all the winter, and I dare say there will be some
balls, and I will take care to get good partners for them all."
They were hopeless of remedy.
I have a high respect for your nerves.
They have at
least that advantage."
I dare say the lace upon Mrs.
Hurst's gown--"

Here she was interrupted again.
my dear, dear Jane, I am so
happy!
"Indeed, Jane, you ought to believe me.
Mr.
Phillips visited them all, and this opened to his nieces a store of
felicity unknown before.
There
could not exist in the world _two_ men over whom Mr. Darcy could have
such boundless influence.
My dear Hill, have you
heard the good news?
The situation of your
mother's family, though objectionable, was nothing in comparison to that
total want of propriety so frequently, so almost uniformly betrayed by
herself, by your three younger sisters, and occasionally even by your
father.
"And _your_ defect is to hate everybody."
At last she recollected
that she had been travelling, and they talked of Matlock and Dove Dale
with great perseverance.
Mr. Bingley was good-looking and gentlemanlike; he had a pleasant
countenance, and easy, unaffected manners.
"Yours, very sincerely,

"M.
It is
not likely that money should be very abundant on either side; and it
might strike them that they could be more economically, though less
expeditiously, married in London than in Scotland."
If therefore she
actually persists in rejecting my suit, perhaps it were better not
to force her into accepting me, because if liable to such defects of
temper, she could not contribute much to my felicity."
My sisters may write to _me_.
* * * * *

"Good gracious!"
His character is thereby complete."
My faults, according to this
calculation, are heavy indeed!
"I am astonished, my dear," said Mrs. Bennet, "that you should be so
ready to think your own children silly.
"From what we have seen of him," continued Mrs. Gardiner, "I really
should not have thought that he could have behaved in so cruel a way by
anybody as he has done by poor Wickham.
sir, I do indeed.
It is evident that you belong to the
first circles.
What, all five out at once?
A promise of secrecy was of course very
dutifully given, but it could not be kept without difficulty; for the
curiosity excited by his long absence burst forth in such very direct
questions on his return as required some ingenuity to evade, and he was
at the same time exercising great self-denial, for he was longing to
publish his prosperous love.
The moment of her release from
him was ecstasy.
"You may well warn me against such an evil.
The beginning contained an account of all their
little parties and engagements, with such news as the country afforded;
but the latter half, which was dated a day later, and written in evident
agitation, gave more important intelligence.
Mr. Darcy's letter she was in a fair way of soon knowing by heart.
"I am sorry to hear _that_; but why did not you tell me that before?
But it ended in
nothing, and I will not be sent on a fool's errand again."
He paused in hopes of an answer; but his companion was not disposed
to make any; and Elizabeth at that instant moving towards them, he was
struck with the action of doing a very gallant thing, and called out to
her:

"My dear Miss Eliza, why are you not dancing?
such an openness and gentleness in his manner!"
Your
portion is unhappily so small that it will in all likelihood undo
the effects of your loveliness and amiable qualifications.
Miss Darcy, the daughter of
Mr. Darcy, of Pemberley, and Lady Anne, could not have appeared with
propriety in a different manner.
How are they even to be discovered?
"I have been making the tour of the park," he replied, "as I generally
do every year, and intend to close it with a call at the Parsonage.
Nay, were your friend Lady Catherine to know me, I
am persuaded she would find me in every respect ill qualified for the
situation."
Whatever bears affinity to cunning is
despicable."
It would have spared her, she thought,
one sleepless night out of two.
But how little of permanent happiness could
belong to a couple who were only brought together because their passions
were stronger than their virtue, she could easily conjecture.
This letter gave Elizabeth some pain; but her spirits returned as she
considered that Jane would no longer be duped, by the sister at least.
"It must make you better satisfied that your other four are
single."
But at length, by Elizabeth's persuasion,
he was prevailed on to overlook the offence, and seek a reconciliation;
and, after a little further resistance on the part of his aunt, her
resentment gave way, either to her affection for him, or her curiosity
to see how his wife conducted herself; and she condescended to wait
on them at Pemberley, in spite of that pollution which its woods had
received, not merely from the presence of such a mistress, but the
visits of her uncle and aunt from the city.
He even looked at her with a smile of affected incredulity.
She talked to Elizabeth again and again;
coaxed and threatened her by turns.
Her heart had been but slightly touched, and her vanity was satisfied
with believing that _she_ would have been his only choice, had fortune
permitted it.
"Can I have the carriage?"
All field sports were over.
"His guilt and his descent appear by your account to be the same," said
Elizabeth angrily; "for I have heard you accuse him of nothing worse
than of being the son of Mr. Darcy's steward, and of _that_, I can
assure you, he informed me himself."
"Lizzy," said her father, "I have given him my consent.
But, however, he is very welcome
to come to Netherfield, if he likes it.
His answer to this
sudden attack was delightful to their mother's ear:

"I am perfectly ready, I assure you, to keep my engagement; and when
your sister is recovered, you shall, if you please, name the very day of
the ball.
In the first place, she persisted in disbelieving
the whole of the matter; secondly, she was very sure that Mr. Collins
had been taken in; thirdly, she trusted that they would never be
happy together; and fourthly, that the match might be broken off.
Jane will be quite an old maid soon, I declare.
He had ruined for a while
every hope of happiness for the most affectionate, generous heart in the
world; and no one could say how lasting an evil he might have inflicted.
"Had you then persuaded yourself that I should?"
Do not involve
yourself or endeavour to involve him in an affection which the want
of fortune would make so very imprudent.
"Both," replied Elizabeth archly; "for I have always seen a great
similarity in the turn of our minds.
She got up, and ran out of the room;
and returned no more, till she heard them passing through the hall to
the dining parlour.
Her mother
impatiently met her at the door of the dressing-room, to ask why Lady
Catherine would not come in again and rest herself.
Since her
being at Lambton, she had heard that Miss Darcy was exceedingly proud;
but the observation of a very few minutes convinced her that she was
only exceedingly shy.
But really, ma'am, I think it would be very hard upon
younger sisters, that they should not have their share of society and
amusement, because the elder may not have the means or inclination to
marry early.
"What should not you mind?"
"Miss Eliza Bennet," said Miss Bingley, "despises cards.
She not unfrequently stopped at the Parsonage, and
had a few minutes' conversation with Charlotte, but was scarcely ever
prevailed upon to get out.
They repulsed
every attempt of Mrs. Bennet at conversation, and by so doing threw a
languor over the whole party, which was very little relieved by the
long speeches of Mr. Collins, who was complimenting Mr. Bingley and his
sisters on the elegance of their entertainment, and the hospitality and
politeness which had marked their behaviour to their guests.
And as to laughter, we will
not expose ourselves, if you please, by attempting to laugh without a
subject.
Has he deigned to add aught of civility
to his ordinary style?--for I dare not hope," he continued in a lower
and more serious tone, "that he is improved in essentials."
In short, my dear aunt, I
should be very sorry to be the means of making any of you unhappy; but
since we see every day that where there is affection, young people
are seldom withheld by immediate want of fortune from entering into
engagements with each other, how can I promise to be wiser than so many
of my fellow-creatures if I am tempted, or how am I even to know that it
would be wisdom to resist?
Till Elizabeth entered the drawing-room at Netherfield, and looked in
vain for Mr. Wickham among the cluster of red coats there assembled, a
doubt of his being present had never occurred to her.
Not to appear to disgrace his family,
to degenerate from the popular qualities, or lose the influence of the
Pemberley House, is a powerful motive.
And, my dear Jane, I never saw you look in greater
beauty.
I am
very, very sorry.
how he must have felt it!"
You
take delight in vexing me.
The
adieu is charity itself.
"It must be something particular, to take him there at this
time of year."
So far each recital confirmed the other; but when she came to the
will, the difference was great.
This information, however, startled Mrs. Bennet; she would have been
glad to be equally satisfied that her daughter had meant to encourage
him by protesting against his proposals, but she dared not believe it,
and could not help saying so.
if that is all, I have a very poor opinion of young men who live in
Derbyshire; and their intimate friends who live in Hertfordshire are not
much better.
Whatever he said, was said well; and whatever he did, done
gracefully.
"That is all very proper and civil, I am sure," said Mrs. Bennet, "and
I dare say she is a very agreeable woman.
He has always something to say to everybody.
"But you see that Jane," said her aunt, "does not think so very ill of
Wickham as to believe him capable of the attempt."
When I am in company with him, I will not be wishing.
He said as little as he had ever been in the
habit of saying; made no mention of the business that had taken him
away, and it was some time before his daughters had courage to speak of
it.
"He is the best landlord, and the best master," said she, "that ever
lived; not like the wild young men nowadays, who think of nothing but
themselves.
only think!
"Yes, she called yesterday with her father.
Well, he is
a very undeserving young man--and I do not suppose there's the least
chance in the world of her ever getting him now.
There were two nephews of Lady Catherine to require them, for
Mr. Darcy had brought with him a Colonel Fitzwilliam, the younger son of
his uncle Lord ----, and, to the great surprise of all the party, when
Mr. Collins returned, the gentlemen accompanied him.
"As I did the other day," said Elizabeth with a conscious smile: "very
true, it will be wise in me to refrain from _that_.
I cannot
catch their tone of conversation, or appear interested in their
concerns, as I often see done."
said she.
and she was the only creature in the room that he asked a second
time.
I have no pleasure in talking
to undutiful children.
No, Lizzy, let me once in my life feel how much I have
been to blame.
You had better neglect your relations than run the risk of
offending your patroness."
Jane and Elizabeth looked at each other, and the waiter was told he need
not stay.
She dreaded seeing Mr.
Wickham again, and was resolved to avoid it as long as possible.
Allow me to say, however, that your fair partner does not
disgrace you, and that I must hope to have this pleasure often repeated,
especially when a certain desirable event, my dear Eliza (glancing at
her sister and Bingley) shall take place.
Let
me know every thing that I am to know, without delay.
Had his own happiness, however,
been the only sacrifice, he might have been allowed to sport with it in
whatever manner he thought best, but her sister's was involved in it, as
she thought he must be sensible himself.
You do not blame me, however, for refusing him?"
She was busily searching through the neighbourhood for a
proper situation for her daughter, and, without knowing or considering
what their income might be, rejected many as deficient in size and
importance.
"These are heavy misfortunes," replied Elizabeth.
I do not know of any
other designs that he had formed; but he was in such a hurry to be gone,
and his spirits so greatly discomposed, that I had difficulty in finding
out even so much as this."
"I am," said he, with a firm voice.
After sitting
for a moment in silence, she said very stiffly to Elizabeth,

"I hope you are well, Miss Bennet.
I shall send this by
express, that no time may be lost in bringing me your answer.
I scarcely know anyone who cannot do all this, and I am sure
I never heard a young lady spoken of for the first time, without being
informed that she was very accomplished."
We
_will_ know where we have gone--we _will_ recollect what we have seen.
He then asked her to walk into the house--but she declared herself not
tired, and they stood together on the lawn.
Tell him I hope he will excuse me when he knows all; and tell him I will
dance with him at the next ball we meet, with great pleasure.
The subjection in which his father had brought him up had
given him originally great humility of manner; but it was now a
good deal counteracted by the self-conceit of a weak head, living in
retirement, and the consequential feelings of early and unexpected
prosperity.
They could describe an
entertainment with accuracy, relate an anecdote with humour, and laugh
at their acquaintance with spirit.
Very
nonsensical to come at all!
I
cannot boast of knowing more than half-a-dozen, in the whole range of my
acquaintance, that are really accomplished."
He spoke well; but there were feelings besides
those of the heart to be detailed; and he was not more eloquent on the
subject of tenderness than of pride.
I have by no means done.
GARDINER."
Those were your words.
"I never heard that it was."
"Merely to the illustration of _your_ character," said she, endeavouring
to shake off her gravity.
Is not general incivility the very essence of love?"
"I dare say she will; she has got over the most trying age."
"I began to be afraid you would never come back again.
"Both," replied Elizabeth archly; "for I have always seen a great
similarity in the turn of our minds.
They were ignorant, idle, and vain.
But I think Mr. Darcy improves upon acquaintance."
He owed a good deal in town, but his debts of honour were still more
formidable.
Darcy professed a great curiosity to see
the view from the Mount, and Elizabeth silently consented.
"I have been making the tour of the park," he replied, "as I generally
do every year, and intend to close it with a call at the Parsonage.
As they walked across the hall towards the river, Elizabeth turned back
to look again; her uncle and aunt stopped also, and while the former
was conjecturing as to the date of the building, the owner of it himself
suddenly came forward from the road, which led behind it to the stables.
When Mr. Bennet wrote again to his brother, therefore, he sent
his permission for them to come; and it was settled, that as soon as
the ceremony was over, they should proceed to Longbourn.
After a slight preparation for good news,
the letter was read aloud.
But the
case is this: We are not rich enough or grand enough for them; and she
is the more anxious to get Miss Darcy for her brother, from the notion
that when there has been _one_ intermarriage, she may have less trouble
in achieving a second; in which there is certainly some ingenuity, and
I dare say it would succeed, if Miss de Bourgh were out of the way.
She was
sorry that Mr. Darcy should have delivered his sentiments in a manner so
little suited to recommend them; but still more was she grieved for the
unhappiness which her sister's refusal must have given him.
You can hardly doubt the
purport of my discourse, however your natural delicacy may lead you to
dissemble; my attentions have been too marked to be mistaken.
Perhaps _she_ is full young to be
much in company.
To these highflown
expressions Elizabeth listened with all the insensibility of distrust;
and though the suddenness of their removal surprised her, she saw
nothing in it really to lament; it was not to be supposed that their
absence from Netherfield would prevent Mr. Bingley's being there; and as
to the loss of their society, she was persuaded that Jane must cease to
regard it, in the enjoyment of his.
Perhaps other people have said so
before, but not one with such justice.
She
could think of nothing else; and yet whether Bingley's regard had really
died away, or were suppressed by his friends' interference; whether
he had been aware of Jane's attachment, or whether it had escaped his
observation; whatever were the case, though her opinion of him must be
materially affected by the difference, her sister's situation remained
the same, her peace equally wounded.
It was first broken by Mrs. Annesley, a
genteel, agreeable-looking woman, whose endeavour to introduce some kind
of discourse proved her to be more truly well-bred than either of the
others; and between her and Mrs. Gardiner, with occasional help from
Elizabeth, the conversation was carried on.
She tried
to recollect some instance of goodness, some distinguished trait of
integrity or benevolence, that might rescue him from the attacks of
Mr. Darcy; or at least, by the predominance of virtue, atone for those
casual errors under which she would endeavour to class what Mr. Darcy
had described as the idleness and vice of many years' continuance.
They always continue to grow sufficiently unlike afterwards to
have their share of vexation; and it is better to know as little as
possible of the defects of the person with whom you are to pass your
life."
Darcy was delighted with
their engagement; his friend had given him the earliest information of
it.
"Thank you," said Lydia, "for if you did, I should certainly tell you
all, and then Wickham would be angry."
But he is an ugly fellow!
I cannot forget the follies and vices of others
so soon as I ought, nor their offenses against myself.
Scarcely anything was talked of the whole day or next morning but their
visit to Rosings.
and she coloured at the
idea; but, recovering herself, said in a lively tone, "And pray, what
is the usual price of an earl's younger son?
As it principally concerns yourself, you ought to know its
contents.
There is in everything a most remarkable resemblance of
character and ideas between us.
"I cannot make him
out.--There is something very pompous in his style.--And what can he
mean by apologising for being next in the entail?--We cannot suppose he
would help it if he could.--Could he be a sensible man, sir?"
She answered in the affirmative, and, unable to resist
the temptation, added, "When you met us there the other day, we had just
been forming a new acquaintance."
But Jane and Elizabeth,
who agreed in wishing, for the sake of their sister's feelings and
consequence, that she should be noticed on her marriage by her parents,
urged him so earnestly yet so rationally and so mildly, to receive her
and her husband at Longbourn, as soon as they were married, that he was
prevailed on to think as they thought, and act as they wished.
"His being so sure of succeeding was wrong," said she, "and certainly
ought not to have appeared; but consider how much it must increase his
disappointment!"
She
could not win him, however, to any conversation; he merely answered her
question, and read on.
But as Elizabeth could not receive comfort from any such expectation,
she made no answer.
She endeavoured to
persuade herself that she did not regret it; but she could no longer be
blind to Miss Bingley's inattention.
"The person of whom I speak is a gentleman, and a stranger."
Elizabeth was sitting by herself the next morning, and writing to Jane
while Mrs. Collins and Maria were gone on business into the village,
when she was startled by a ring at the door, the certain signal of a
visitor.
"I hope," said she, as they were walking together in the shrubbery
the next day, "you will give your mother-in-law a few hints, when this
desirable event takes place, as to the advantage of holding her tongue;
and if you can compass it, do cure the younger girls of running after
officers.
My uncle and aunt and I were to go together; and the others
were to meet us at the church.
The fact is, that you were sick of civility, of deference, of officious
attention.
What is your opinion?"
But of all the views which his garden, or which
the country or kingdom could boast, none were to be compared with the
prospect of Rosings, afforded by an opening in the trees that bordered
the park nearly opposite the front of his house.
"Let us be thankful that you are preserved from a state of such
insensibility."
"What is his name?"
To Mrs. Gardiner, Wickham had one means of affording pleasure,
unconnected with his general powers.
This part of his intelligence, though unheard by Lydia, was caught by
Elizabeth, and, as it assured her that Darcy was not less answerable for
Wickham's absence than if her first surmise had been just, every
feeling of displeasure against the former was so sharpened by immediate
disappointment, that she could hardly reply with tolerable civility to
the polite inquiries which he directly afterwards approached to make.
I am happier even than Jane; she
only smiles, I laugh.
"I am no longer surprised at your knowing _only_ six accomplished women.
"Is this," thought Elizabeth, "meant for me?"
"If we make haste," said Lydia, as they walked along, "perhaps we may
see something of Captain Carter before he goes."
"Already arisen?"
"I have, sir."
He scarcely ever spoke
to her, and the assiduous attentions which he had been so sensible of
himself were transferred for the rest of the day to Miss Lucas, whose
civility in listening to him was a seasonable relief to them all, and
especially to her friend.
We must not expect a lively young man
to be always so guarded and circumspect.
Sir William had been
delighted with him.
But before she had been three minutes in her own room,
her mother followed her.
"Is he married or single?"
the
happiest, wisest, most reasonable end!"
Darcy?"
I knew that Mr. Wickham ought not to be a clergyman; the
business was therefore soon settled--he resigned all claim to assistance
in the church, were it possible that he could ever be in a situation to
receive it, and accepted in return three thousand pounds.
"Yes, in conjunction with his friend."
His plan did not vary on seeing them.
We
know how little there is to tempt anyone to our humble abode.
Mrs.
Bennet sent them word that they could not possibly have the carriage
before Tuesday; and in her postscript it was added, that if Mr. Bingley
and his sister pressed them to stay longer, she could spare them
very well.
I understand that Mr. Collins has made
you an offer of marriage.
Allow me, by the
way, to observe, my fair cousin, that I do not reckon the notice
and kindness of Lady Catherine de Bourgh as among the least of the
advantages in my power to offer.
"Wickham is not so undeserving, then, as we thought him," said her
sister.
"Poor Wickham!
Elizabeth
smiled at the recollection of all that she had heard of its inhabitants.
I hope you will
drink to our good journey.
But he had
given a reason for his interference, which asked no extraordinary
stretch of belief.
I appeal to Mr. Darcy:--but let me not interrupt you, sir.
Now seriously, what have you ever known of self-denial and
dependence?
But,
though this might be imaginary, she could not be deceived as to his
behaviour to Miss Darcy, who had been set up as a rival to Jane.
The little Gardiners, attracted by the sight of a chaise, were standing
on the steps of the house as they entered the paddock; and, when the
carriage drove up to the door, the joyful surprise that lighted up their
faces, and displayed itself over their whole bodies, in a variety of
capers and frisks, was the first pleasing earnest of their welcome.
"And we mean to treat you all," added Lydia, "but you must lend us the
money, for we have just spent ours at the shop out there."
"How can you be smiling so,
Lizzy?"
"Can it be
possible that he will marry her?"
Were the whole arrangement complete, my disappointment would be certain.
I will not spend my hours
in running after my neighbours every time they go away and come back
again."
"Very well--and this offer of marriage you have refused?"
Her carriage remained at the door, and Elizabeth saw that her
waiting-woman was in it.
Girls, can I do
anything for you in Meryton?
"In marrying your nephew, I should not consider myself as quitting that
sphere.
Colonel Forster will, I dare say, do everything in
his power to satisfy us on this head.
"Oh, yes!
I will
think no more about him."
I have not been in the habit of brooking disappointment."
And on the gentlemen's approaching, one of
the girls moved closer to her than ever, and said, in a whisper:

"The men shan't come and part us, I am determined.
"Oh!
She tried, however, to compose herself to
answer him with patience, when he should have done.
"_You_ observed it, Mr. Darcy, I am sure," said Miss Bingley; "and I am
inclined to think that you would not wish to see _your_ sister make such
an exhibition."
His father, Miss Bennet, the late Mr. Darcy, was one of the best men
that ever breathed, and the truest friend I ever had; and I can never
be in company with this Mr. Darcy without being grieved to the soul by
a thousand tender recollections.
When the gentlemen had joined them, and tea was over, the card-tables
were placed.
She had already learnt that Lady Catherine was still in the country.
It had not been very great; he had lost every
point; but when Mrs. Phillips began to express her concern thereupon,
he assured her with much earnest gravity that it was not of the least
importance, that he considered the money as a mere trifle, and begged
that she would not make herself uneasy.
Elizabeth listened, wondered, doubted, and was impatient for more.
It was first broken by Mrs. Annesley, a
genteel, agreeable-looking woman, whose endeavour to introduce some kind
of discourse proved her to be more truly well-bred than either of the
others; and between her and Mrs. Gardiner, with occasional help from
Elizabeth, the conversation was carried on.
The evening passed quietly, unmarked by anything extraordinary.
"A great many indeed," said her companion with a sigh.
"How should you have liked making sermons?"
On the very last day of the regiment's remaining at Meryton, he dined,
with other of the officers, at Longbourn; and so little was Elizabeth
disposed to part from him in good humour, that on his making some
inquiry as to the manner in which her time had passed at Hunsford, she
mentioned Colonel Fitzwilliam's and Mr. Darcy's having both spent three
weeks at Rosings, and asked him, if he was acquainted with the former.
The park was very large, and contained great variety of ground.
He
must go somewhere, but he did not know where, and he knew he should have
nothing to live on.
"Yes, and her petticoat; I hope you saw her petticoat, six inches deep
in mud, I am absolutely certain; and the gown which had been let down to
hide it not doing its office."
"I am going
to open the instrument, Eliza, and you know what follows."
The manner in which they spoke of the Meryton assembly was sufficiently
characteristic.
Her answer, therefore, was not propitious, at
least not to Elizabeth's wishes, for she was impatient to get home.
But I have
other provocations.
The Netherfield
ladies would have had difficulty in believing that a man who lived
by trade, and within view of his own warehouses, could have been so
well-bred and agreeable.
But in matters of greater
weight, I may suffer from want of money.
Lady Catherine was reckoned proud by many
people he knew, but _he_ had never seen anything but affability in her.
It had been settled in the evening between the aunt and the niece, that
such a striking civility as Miss Darcy's in coming to see them on the
very day of her arrival at Pemberley, for she had reached it only to a
late breakfast, ought to be imitated, though it could not be equalled,
by some exertion of politeness on their side; and, consequently, that
it would be highly expedient to wait on her at Pemberley the following
morning.
She wanted to talk, but
there seemed to be an embargo on every subject.
You ought all to have learned.
Elizabeth had
not before believed him quite equal to such assurance; but she sat down,
resolving within herself to draw no limits in future to the impudence
of an impudent man.
But on returning to the drawing-room, when her letter was finished, she
saw, to her infinite surprise, there was reason to fear that her mother
had been too ingenious for her.
"It is amazing to me," said Bingley, "how young ladies can have patience
to be so very accomplished as they all are."
Every girl in or near Meryton was out of her senses about him for
the first two months; but he never distinguished _her_ by any particular
attention; and, consequently, after a moderate period of extravagant and
wild admiration, her fancy for him gave way, and others of the regiment,
who treated her with more distinction, again became her favourites."
what is to become of us?
She could think of nothing more to say; but if he wished to converse
with her, he might have better success.
This cannot be!--engaged to Mr. Darcy!
I am sure you will be very comfortable there.--Yours, etc."
my dear Mr. Bennet," as she entered the room, "we have had a most
delightful evening, a most excellent ball.
I must beg,
therefore, to be importuned no farther on the subject."
The Collinses will turn us out before he is cold in his
grave, and if you are not kind to us, brother, I do not know what we
shall do."
She declared her resolution.
Lydia was Lydia still; untamed, unabashed, wild, noisy,
and fearless.
She supposed, if he meant anything, he must
mean an allusion to what might arise in that quarter.
my dear brother," replied Mrs. Bennet, "that is exactly what I
could most wish for.
"No--I do not know that you were wrong in saying what you did."
I came to try you.
"If I should
ever go to Brighton, I would behave better than Lydia."
What a triumph for him, as she often thought, could he know that the
proposals which she had proudly spurned only four months ago, would now
have been most gladly and gratefully received!
She had even condescended to advise him to
marry as soon as he could, provided he chose with discretion; and had
once paid him a visit in his humble parsonage, where she had perfectly
approved all the alterations he had been making, and had even vouchsafed
to suggest some herself--some shelves in the closet up stairs."
Here consequently was an inexhaustible subject
of discourse.
Miss Bennet eagerly disclaimed all extraordinary merit, and threw back
the praise on her sister's warm affection.
"That is capital," added her sister, and they both laughed heartily.
As to what
restraint the apprehensions of disgrace in the corps might throw on a
dishonourable elopement with her, I am not able to judge; for I know
nothing of the effects that such a step might produce.
Arguments are too much like disputes.
"And remember that I have not much reason for supposing it to be
Bingley.
He knows of my being in town, I am certain, from something she said
herself; and yet it would seem, by her manner of talking, as if she
wanted to persuade herself that he is really partial to Miss Darcy.
"I wish I could call her amiable.
Mrs.
Reynolds could interest her on no other point.
Oh, no, no--this is not likely.
Colonel Fitzwilliam had called at the
Parsonage more than once during the time, but Mr. Darcy they had seen
only at church.
You
may have drawn him in."
She could see him instantly before
her, in every charm of air and address; but she could remember no more
substantial good than the general approbation of the neighbourhood, and
the regard which his social powers had gained him in the mess.
When is your turn to come?
I found that
Miss Darcy was expected to dinner.
"I shall be very fit to see Jane--which is all I want."
Lady Lucas quieted her fears
a little by starting the idea of his being gone to London only to get
a large party for the ball; and a report soon followed that Mr. Bingley
was to bring twelve ladies and seven gentlemen with him to the assembly.
Mr.
Hurst had therefore nothing to do, but to stretch himself on one of the
sofas and go to sleep.
Interested people have perhaps
misrepresented each to the other.
One ought not to
repine;--but, to be sure, it would have been such a thing for me!
"True," said Mr. Bennet, "but it is a comfort to think that whatever of
that kind may befall you, you have an affectionate mother who will make
the most of it."
Miss Bingley's letter arrived, and put an end to doubt.
His choice is
disinterested at least, for he must know my father can give her nothing.
Your sweetness
and disinterestedness are really angelic; I do not know what to say
to you.
Elizabeth would not observe her; and when at last
Kitty did, she very innocently said, "What is the matter mamma?
"You must know that
though I should be exceedingly grieved at their disapprobation, I could
not hesitate."
Interested people have perhaps
misrepresented each to the other.
Mr. Bingley had danced with her twice, and she had been
distinguished by his sisters.
And if I am that choice, why may not I accept him?"
The second began.
"I had not at that time the honour of knowing any lady in the assembly
beyond my own party."
Yet, how just a humiliation!
'Tis as good as a Lord!
Respect,
esteem, and confidence had vanished for ever; and all his views
of domestic happiness were overthrown.
She would not give him time to reply, but hurrying instantly to her
husband, called out as she entered the library, "Oh!
"I found," said he, "as the time drew near that I had better not meet
Mr. Darcy; that to be in the same room, the same party with him for so
many hours together, might be more than I could bear, and that scenes
might arise unpleasant to more than myself."
"I do not know.
They agree with me in apprehending that
this false step in one daughter will be injurious to the fortunes of
all the others; for who, as Lady Catherine herself condescendingly says,
will connect themselves with such a family?
I have seen them both--"

"Then it is as I always hoped," cried Jane; "they are married!"
The motive professed was his conviction of its being owing to
himself that Wickham's worthlessness had not been so well known as to
make it impossible for any young woman of character to love or confide
in him.
Mrs. Gardiner looked at her niece with a smile, but Elizabeth could not
return it.
"I should never have said Mrs. Collins
was settled _near_ her family."
Darcy."
Generous, good man, I am afraid he has
distressed himself.
"My dear Lizzy, do not give way to such feelings as these.
Elizabeth, however astonished, was at least more prepared
for an interview than before, and resolved to appear and to speak with
calmness, if he really intended to meet them.
"I leave it to yourself to determine," said Mr. Bennet.
Jane, I take your place now, and you must go
lower, because I am a married woman."
She is quite a little
creature.
But may we not
hope that the period of future happiness to which Miss Bingley looks
forward may arrive earlier than she is aware, and that the delightful
intercourse you have known as friends will be renewed with yet greater
satisfaction as sisters?
and her calling here was prodigiously
civil!
You refuse, then, to oblige me.
"It did.
Jane pictured to herself a happy evening in the
society of her two friends, and the attentions of her brother; and
Elizabeth thought with pleasure of dancing a great deal with Mr.
Wickham, and of seeing a confirmation of everything in Mr. Darcy's look
and behaviour.
She
had ventured only one glance at Darcy.
These
bitter accusations might have been suppressed, had I, with greater
policy, concealed my struggles, and flattered you into the belief of
my being impelled by unqualified, unalloyed inclination; by reason, by
reflection, by everything.
I do assure you that the news does not affect
me either with pleasure or pain.
Mr. Bennet's expectations were fully answered.
Elizabeth, though expecting no less, thanked
him with tears of gratitude; and all three being actuated by one spirit,
everything relating to their journey was speedily settled.
It was a handsome
modern building, well situated on rising ground.
Give my love to Colonel Forster.
I am sure Lizzy
will be very happy--I am sure she can have no objection.
But is it
certain--absolutely certain?"
I am not indebted for my present happiness to
your eager desire of expressing your gratitude.
My feelings in every respect
forbid it.
Into _one_ house in this
neighbourhood they shall never have admittance.
Those were your words.
The
town where she had formerly passed some years of her life, and where
they were now to spend a few days, was probably as great an object of
her curiosity as all the celebrated beauties of Matlock, Chatsworth,
Dovedale, or the Peak.
She has known him only a fortnight.
"And have you heard from him often?"
She has two nieces
of her own.
"The garden in which stands my humble abode is separated only by a lane
from Rosings Park, her ladyship's residence."
And one of my
own daughters.
Her ease and good
spirits increased.
"I expected at least that the pigs
were got into the garden, and here is nothing but Lady Catherine and her
daughter."
In this house they were received by Miss Darcy, who was sitting there
with Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley, and the lady with whom she lived in
London.
Colonel Fitzwilliam was no
longer an object; she could think only of her letter.
As he said this, she could easily see that he had no doubt
of a favourable answer.
I write rather slowly."
And for _this_ we are to be
thankful.
"This is the only point, I flatter myself, on which we do not agree.
"But surely," said she, "I may enter his county with impunity,
and rob it of a few petrified spars without his perceiving me."
I shall
send for my clothes when I get to Longbourn; but I wish you would tell
Sally to mend a great slit in my worked muslin gown before they are
packed up.
But how came you to tell me that he was so
disagreeable?"
From this day you must
be a stranger to one of your parents.
Mary and Kitty, thank
Heaven, are quite well."
I rather expected, from my knowledge of her affability, that it
would happen.
To be sure, you knew no actual good of me--but nobody thinks
of _that_ when they fall in love."
There is but such a quantity of merit between them; just
enough to make one good sort of man; and of late it has been shifting
about pretty much.
"My dear madam," replied he, "let us be for ever silent on this point.
"Believe me, my dear Miss Elizabeth, that your modesty, so far from
doing you any disservice, rather adds to your other perfections.
Mr. Hurst and Mr. Bingley were at piquet, and
Mrs. Hurst was observing their game.
He could not help
seeing that you were about five times as pretty as every other woman
in the room.
Miss Darcy's praise occupied
the chief of it.
But on returning to the drawing-room, when her letter was finished, she
saw, to her infinite surprise, there was reason to fear that her mother
had been too ingenious for her.
Miss Bennet was therefore
established as a sweet girl, and their brother felt authorized by such
commendation to think of her as he chose.
When Mr. Collins could be
forgotten, there was really an air of great comfort throughout, and by
Charlotte's evident enjoyment of it, Elizabeth supposed he must be often
forgotten.
This is my advice.
"And that," said Mrs. Reynolds, pointing to another of the miniatures,
"is my master--and very like him.
A day or two passed before Jane had courage to speak of her feelings to
Elizabeth; but at last, on Mrs. Bennet's leaving them together, after a
longer irritation than usual about Netherfield and its master, she could
not help saying:

"Oh, that my dear mother had more command over herself!
She endeavoured to secure Jane
in her interest; but Jane, with all possible mildness, declined
interfering; and Elizabeth, sometimes with real earnestness, and
sometimes with playful gaiety, replied to her attacks.
said Elizabeth.
"But, my dear, your father cannot spare the horses, I am sure.
The garden sloping to the
road, the house standing in it, the green pales, and the laurel hedge,
everything declared they were arriving.
It was absolutely necessary to interrupt him now.
Among those who are at all his equals in consequence, he is
a very different man from what he is to the less prosperous.
"But you see that Jane," said her aunt, "does not think so very ill of
Wickham as to believe him capable of the attempt."
Her performance was pleasing, though by no means capital.
I could not have parted with
you, my Lizzy, to anyone less worthy."
"What, has she frightened away
some of your lovers?
_They_ will never be distressed
for money.
But when they had withdrawn, he said to her: "Mrs.
Bennet, before you take any or all of these houses for your son and
daughter, let us come to a right understanding.
And since this sad
affair has taken place, it is said that he left Meryton greatly in debt;
but I hope this may be false."
In Lydia's imagination, a visit to Brighton comprised
every possibility of earthly happiness.
In her kind schemes for Elizabeth, she sometimes planned her marrying
Colonel Fitzwilliam.
Her ladyship received
them civilly, but it was plain that their company was by no means so
acceptable as when she could get nobody else; and she was, in fact,
almost engrossed by her nephews, speaking to them, especially to Darcy,
much more than to any other person in the room.
Were the same fair prospect to arise at present as had
flattered them a year ago, every thing, she was persuaded, would be
hastening to the same vexatious conclusion.
When the ladies returned to the drawing-room, there was little to
be done but to hear Lady Catherine talk, which she did without any
intermission till coffee came in, delivering her opinion on every
subject in so decisive a manner, as proved that she was not used to
have her judgement controverted.
I have not a doubt of your
doing very well together.
Lord, how ashamed I should be of not
being married before three-and-twenty!
The promised
letter of thanks from Mr. Collins arrived on Tuesday, addressed to
their father, and written with all the solemnity of gratitude which a
twelvemonth's abode in the family might have prompted.
This unfortunate affair will, I
fear, prevent my sister's having the pleasure of seeing you at Pemberley
to-day."
And poor Mr. Darcy!
"How can you talk so?"
This is not
the sort of happiness which a man would in general wish to owe to his
wife; but where other powers of entertainment are wanting, the true
philosopher will derive benefit from such as are given.
He stood by her, however, for
some minutes, in silence; and, at last, on the young lady's whispering
to Elizabeth again, he walked away.
I
can no longer help thanking you for your unexampled kindness to my
poor sister.
Till I was in Kent, and saw
so much both of Mr. Darcy and his relation Colonel Fitzwilliam, I was
ignorant of the truth myself.
Mr. Collins, meanwhile, was meditating in solitude on what had passed.
Nay, were your friend Lady Catherine to know me, I
am persuaded she would find me in every respect ill qualified for the
situation."
She was a little revived, however, by his bringing back his coffee cup
himself; and she seized the opportunity of saying:

"Is your sister at Pemberley still?"
She
is not such a simpleton.
His character was decided.
"Oh!
Yes,
Miss Bennet, interest; for do not expect to be noticed by his family or
friends, if you wilfully act against the inclinations of all.
"My fingers," said Elizabeth, "do not move over this instrument in the
masterly manner which I see so many women's do.
The reason why all
this was to be done by him alone, was such as I have given above.
"I hope, my dear," said Mr. Bennet to his wife, as they were at
breakfast the next morning, "that you have ordered a good dinner to-day,
because I have reason to expect an addition to our family party."
He
drew a chair near her.
Elizabeth made no answer, and walked on, her heart swelling with
indignation.
When have you been prevented by want of money from going
wherever you chose, or procuring anything you had a fancy for?"
"Upon my word!
The Miss
Webbs all play, and their father has not so good an income as yours.
Console Lady Catherine as well as you can.
Mrs. Bennet was privileged to whisper it to Mrs. Phillips,
and she ventured, without any permission, to do the same by all her
neighbours in Meryton.
Lady Catherine seemed pleased.
"Well, my dear," said Mr. Bennet, when Elizabeth had read the note
aloud, "if your daughter should have a dangerous fit of illness--if she
should die, it would be a comfort to know that it was all in pursuit of
Mr. Bingley, and under your orders."
Oh that I had been with you!
And
with no one to speak to about what I felt, no Jane to comfort me and say
that I had not been so very weak and vain and nonsensical as I knew I
had!
"What is Mr. Darcy to me, pray, that I should be afraid of him?
Her many attractions were again dwelt on, and Caroline
boasted joyfully of their increasing intimacy, and ventured to predict
the accomplishment of the wishes which had been unfolded in her former
letter.
She had never heard of him before his
entrance into the ----shire Militia, in which he had engaged at the
persuasion of the young man who, on meeting him accidentally in town,
had there renewed a slight acquaintance.
"Very well.
"Oh, Lizzy!
She had known, it seems, of their
being in love with each other, many weeks."
Mrs. Bennet, to whose apartment they all repaired, after a few minutes'
conversation together, received them exactly as might be expected; with
tears and lamentations of regret, invectives against the villainous
conduct of Wickham, and complaints of her own sufferings and ill-usage;
blaming everybody but the person to whose ill-judging indulgence the
errors of her daughter must principally be owing.
"Yes; these four evenings have enabled them to ascertain that they
both like Vingt-un better than Commerce; but with respect to any other
leading characteristic, I do not imagine that much has been unfolded."
"Pray let me hear what you have to accuse him of," cried Colonel
Fitzwilliam.
But Elizabeth had now recollected herself, and making a strong effort
for it, was able to assure with tolerable firmness that the prospect of
their relationship was highly grateful to her, and that she wished her
all imaginable happiness.
She was then but fifteen, which must be her
excuse; and after stating her imprudence, I am happy to add, that I owed
the knowledge of it to herself.
She had high
animal spirits, and a sort of natural self-consequence, which the
attention of the officers, to whom her uncle's good dinners, and her own
easy manners recommended her, had increased into assurance.
At
present I will say nothing about it."
"No--I do not know that you were wrong in saying what you did."
It seems to me to show an abominable sort of conceited independence,
a most country-town indifference to decorum."
They then went away.
"Your examination of Mr. Darcy is over, I presume," said Miss Bingley;
"and pray what is the result?"
But it must not, shall not be.
What praise is more valuable than the praise
of an intelligent servant?
"If he were ever able to learn what Wickham's debts have been," said
Elizabeth, "and how much is settled on his side on our sister, we shall
exactly know what Mr. Gardiner has done for them, because Wickham has
not sixpence of his own.
But how came you to tell me that he was so
disagreeable?"
They could have
been understood only by her mother, who might have felt nearly the same.
Their fortune on
both sides is splendid.
"If you mean Darcy," cried her brother, "he may go to bed, if he
chooses, before it begins--but as for the ball, it is quite a settled
thing; and as soon as Nicholls has made white soup enough, I shall send
round my cards."
Colonel Forster believed that more than a
thousand pounds would be necessary to clear his expenses at Brighton.
Let me never see either
one or the other again!"
I know we dine with four-and-twenty families."
Miss Lucas is married and settled.
If his own vanity, however, did not mislead him, _he_ was
the cause, his pride and caprice were the cause, of all that Jane had
suffered, and still continued to suffer.
His letter was soon
dispatched; for, though dilatory in undertaking business, he was quick
in its execution.
Her performance was pleasing, though by no means capital.
"Take whatever you like, and get away."
"No; but it must be done soon."
As they drove to Mr. Gardiner's
door, Jane was at a drawing-room window watching their arrival; when
they entered the passage she was there to welcome them, and Elizabeth,
looking earnestly in her face, was pleased to see it healthful and
lovely as ever.
"There is a gentleman with him, mamma," said Kitty; "who can it be?"
And what claims has Lydia--what attraction has she
beyond youth, health, and good humour that could make him, for her sake,
forego every chance of benefiting himself by marrying well?
Their parties
abroad were less varied than before, and at home she had a mother and
sister whose constant repinings at the dullness of everything around
them threw a real gloom over their domestic circle; and, though Kitty
might in time regain her natural degree of sense, since the disturbers
of her brain were removed, her other sister, from whose disposition
greater evil might be apprehended, was likely to be hardened in all
her folly and assurance by a situation of such double danger as a
watering-place and a camp.
She answered with equal
indifference and brevity, and the other said no more.
How does Georgiana get on, Darcy?"
"Yes, sir, I know I am.
She then joined them soon enough to see Lydia, with
anxious parade, walk up to her mother's right hand, and hear her say
to her eldest sister, "Ah!
He had
not a temper to bear the sort of competition in which we stood--the sort
of preference which was often given me."
Elizabeth reserved to herself the
application for her mother's.
The more I see
of the world, the more am I dissatisfied with it; and every day confirms
my belief of the inconsistency of all human characters, and of the
little dependence that can be placed on the appearance of merit or
sense.
"But you _will_ know it, when I tell you what happened the very next
day."
That is the place to get
husbands.
Then, showing
her purchases--"Look here, I have bought this bonnet.
But I am willing
to hope the best, and that his character has been misunderstood.
When Mr. Bennet wrote again to his brother, therefore, he sent
his permission for them to come; and it was settled, that as soon as
the ceremony was over, they should proceed to Longbourn.
"Yes, and her petticoat; I hope you saw her petticoat, six inches deep
in mud, I am absolutely certain; and the gown which had been let down to
hide it not doing its office."
What are we to do?"
Lady Lucas was a very good kind of woman, not too clever to be a
valuable neighbour to Mrs. Bennet.
They were, therefore, to go.
"I had not at that time the honour of knowing any lady in the assembly
beyond my own party."
You must therefore allow me to
follow the dictates of my conscience on this occasion, which leads me to
perform what I look on as a point of duty.
Miss Bingley's civility to Elizabeth increased at last
very rapidly, as well as her affection for Jane; and when they parted,
after assuring the latter of the pleasure it would always give her
to see her either at Longbourn or Netherfield, and embracing her most
tenderly, she even shook hands with the former.
My dear Jane, Mr. Collins is a
conceited, pompous, narrow-minded, silly man; you know he is, as well as
I do; and you must feel, as well as I do, that the woman who married him
cannot have a proper way of thinking.
His revenge would have
been complete indeed.
To convince him, therefore, that he had deceived himself, was
no very difficult point.
What does he say?
Will you do me the honour of reading that letter?"
You have employed your
time much better.
repeated Elizabeth, in utter amazement.
The power of displaying the grandeur of his patroness to his wondering
visitors, and of letting them see her civility towards himself and his
wife, was exactly what he had wished for; and that an opportunity
of doing it should be given so soon, was such an instance of Lady
Catherine's condescension, as he knew not how to admire enough.
The account of his connection with the Pemberley family was exactly what
he had related himself; and the kindness of the late Mr. Darcy, though
she had not before known its extent, agreed equally well with his own
words.
"La!
I rather wished, than believed
him to be sincere; but, at any rate, was perfectly ready to accede to
his proposal.
"I am perfectly convinced by it that Mr. Darcy has no defect.
Her feelings as she read were scarcely to be defined.
"Yes; these four evenings have enabled them to ascertain that they
both like Vingt-un better than Commerce; but with respect to any other
leading characteristic, I do not imagine that much has been unfolded."
"There can be no doubt of that.
But afterwards she
seemed to improve on you, and I believe you thought her rather pretty at
one time."
Lady
Catherine is far from requiring that elegance of dress in us which
becomes herself and her daughter.
"How strange this is!
"I do not at all know; but I _heard_ nothing of his going away when I
was at Netherfield.
Mr. Gardiner did not write again till he had received an answer from
Colonel Forster; and then he had nothing of a pleasant nature to send.
Lizzy, why am I thus singled from my family, and blessed
above them all!
Elizabeth could not but smile at such a conclusion of such a beginning,
but Mrs. Bennet, who had persuaded herself that her husband regarded the
affair as she wished, was excessively disappointed.
Mrs. Bennet chose to consider it as given in
compliment to her eldest daughter, and was particularly flattered
by receiving the invitation from Mr. Bingley himself, instead of a
ceremonious card.
"Yes, very different.
"It is a compliment which I never pay to any place if I can avoid it."
She
heard the carriage drive away as she proceeded up stairs.
I do not trust my own
partiality.
"You must give me leave to flatter myself, my dear cousin, that your
refusal of my addresses is merely words of course.
It was dated
from Rosings, at eight o'clock in the morning, and was as follows:--

"Be not alarmed, madam, on receiving this letter, by the apprehension
of its containing any repetition of those sentiments or renewal of those
offers which were last night so disgusting to you.
Be that as it may, she saw him
go with regret; and in this early example of what Lydia's infamy must
produce, found additional anguish as she reflected on that wretched
business.
There is no knowing how estates
will go when once they come to be entailed."
She had very little notice from any but him.
But, however this remonstrance
might have staggered or delayed his determination, I do not suppose
that it would ultimately have prevented the marriage, had it not been
seconded by the assurance that I hesitated not in giving, of your
sister's indifference.
"Pray do, my dear Miss Lucas," she added in a melancholy tone,
"for nobody is on my side, nobody takes part with me.
"Wickham so
very bad!
Do let me ask my partner to introduce you."
"My mother would have had no objection, but my father hates London."
Poor Reynolds, she was always very fond of
me.
They must all go to Brighton.
My fingers wait your orders."
Mr. Bingley arrived.
Good-bye.
He danced
only four dances, though gentlemen were scarce; and, to my certain
knowledge, more than one young lady was sitting down in want of a
partner.
Who
could have imagined that we should receive an invitation to dine there
(an invitation, moreover, including the whole party) so immediately
after your arrival!"
Will you hear it?"
Two obstacles of
the five being thus removed, Mrs. Bennet sat looking and winking at
Elizabeth and Catherine for a considerable time, without making any
impression on them.
Her
heart did whisper that he had done it for her.
Mr. Darcy's behaviour astonished and vexed her.
She followed her father to the fire place, and they both sat down.
It could not be for society, as he frequently sat there
ten minutes together without opening his lips; and when he did speak,
it seemed the effect of necessity rather than of choice--a sacrifice
to propriety, not a pleasure to himself.
I ask only a comfortable home; and considering Mr. Collins's
character, connection, and situation in life, I am convinced that my
chance of happiness with him is as fair as most people can boast on
entering the marriage state."
"Indeed!"
Robinson."
"You take an eager interest in that gentleman's concerns," said Darcy,
in a less tranquil tone, and with a heightened colour.
My dear Jane, I am in
such a flutter, that I am sure I can't write; so I will dictate, and
you write for me.
Many stared--many
smiled; but no one looked more amused than Mr. Bennet himself, while his
wife seriously commended Mr. Collins for having spoken so sensibly,
and observed in a half-whisper to Lady Lucas, that he was a remarkably
clever, good kind of young man.
"I am far from attributing any part of Mr. Bingley's conduct to design,"
said Elizabeth; "but without scheming to do wrong, or to make others
unhappy, there may be error, and there may be misery.
Within doors there
was Lady Catherine, books, and a billiard-table, but gentlemen cannot
always be within doors; and in the nearness of the Parsonage, or the
pleasantness of the walk to it, or of the people who lived in it, the
two cousins found a temptation from this period of walking thither
almost every day.
no, my regret and compassion are all done away by seeing you so
full of both.
There is nothing extravagant in _their_
housekeeping, I dare say."
His sense of her inferiority--of
its being a degradation--of the family obstacles which had always
opposed to inclination, were dwelt on with a warmth which seemed due to
the consequence he was wounding, but was very unlikely to recommend his
suit.
Mr. Gardiner himself
did not expect any success from this measure, but as his brother was
eager in it, he meant to assist him in pursuing it.
He then handed her
in, Maria followed, and the door was on the point of being closed,
when he suddenly reminded them, with some consternation, that they had
hitherto forgotten to leave any message for the ladies at Rosings.
You will
be censured, slighted, and despised, by everyone connected with him.
"I am not now to learn," replied Mr. Collins, with a formal wave of the
hand, "that it is usual with young ladies to reject the addresses of the
man whom they secretly mean to accept, when he first applies for their
favour; and that sometimes the refusal is repeated a second, or even a
third time.
The carriage was sent to
meet them at ----, and they were to return in it by dinner-time.
You will not think of quitting it
in a hurry, I hope, though you have but a short lease."
But you have chosen your fault well.
She was received, however, very politely by them; and in their
brother's manners there was something better than politeness; there
was good humour and kindness.
Since her
being at Lambton, she had heard that Miss Darcy was exceedingly proud;
but the observation of a very few minutes convinced her that she was
only exceedingly shy.
To the girls, who could not listen to their cousin,
and who had nothing to do but to wish for an instrument, and examine
their own indifferent imitations of china on the mantelpiece, the
interval of waiting appeared very long.
Five daughters
successively entered the world, but yet the son was to come; and Mrs.
Bennet, for many years after Lydia's birth, had been certain that he
would.
Elizabeth found the interest of the subject increase, and listened with
all her heart; but the delicacy of it prevented further inquiry.
I can
recall nothing worse.
Lady Catherine's great attentions to Mrs. Collins you
have been a daily witness of; and altogether I trust it does not appear
that your friend has drawn an unfortunate--but on this point it will be
as well to be silent.
She is now about Miss Elizabeth Bennet's height, or
rather taller."
"You have said quite enough, madam.
If Mr. Darcy is neither
by honour nor inclination confined to his cousin, why is not he to make
another choice?
On this subject I have nothing more to say, no
other apology to offer.
_You_
think it a faithful portrait undoubtedly."
"You are joking, Lizzy.
"That is very true," said Elizabeth; "though it had not occurred to me
before.
Mr. Collins might never make the offer, and
till he did, it was useless to quarrel about him.
He then recollected her embarrassment a few days before, on his reading
Mr. Collins's letter; and after laughing at her some time, allowed her
at last to go--saying, as she quitted the room, "If any young men come
for Mary or Kitty, send them in, for I am quite at leisure."
The ladies were somewhat more
fortunate, for they had the advantage of ascertaining from an upper
window that he wore a blue coat, and rode a black horse.
He
smiled, looked handsome, and said many pretty things.
Collins, you
must marry.
And when I returned home, the ----shire
was to leave Meryton in a week or fortnight's time.
They could have
been understood only by her mother, who might have felt nearly the same.
But think no more of the letter.
They have at
least that advantage."
Caroline did not
return my visit till yesterday; and not a note, not a line, did I
receive in the meantime.
Mrs. Bennet said only, "Nonsense,
nonsense!"
This roused a general astonishment; and he had the pleasure of being
eagerly questioned by his wife and his five daughters at once.
"I never saw a more promising inclination; he was growing quite
inattentive to other people, and wholly engrossed by her.
At present, indeed, they were well supplied both with
news and happiness by the recent arrival of a militia regiment in the
neighbourhood; it was to remain the whole winter, and Meryton was the
headquarters.
And accordingly she did turn, and they walked towards the Parsonage
together.
I shall not sport with your impatience, by reading what he says
on that point.
He was struggling for the
appearance of composure, and would not open his lips till he believed
himself to have attained it.
This
gallantry was not much to the taste of some of his hearers; but Mrs.
Bennet, who quarreled with no compliments, answered most readily.
But, in my opinion, it is a paltry device, a very mean art."
As
to his real character, had information been in her power, she had
never felt a wish of inquiring.
"Could I expect it to be otherwise!"
But with me, it is not so.
After tea, Mr. Bennet retired to the library, as was his
custom, and Mary went up stairs to her instrument.
"When is
your next ball to be, Lizzy?"
They then sat down, and when her inquiries after Rosings were made,
seemed in danger of sinking into total silence.
He deserves to be publicly disgraced."
Again his astonishment was obvious; and he looked at her with an
expression of mingled incredulity and mortification.
She
could not bear such suspense; and hastily seizing a sheet of paper,
wrote a short letter to her aunt, to request an explanation of what
Lydia had dropt, if it were compatible with the secrecy which had been
intended.
Mrs. Gardiner about this time reminded Elizabeth of her promise
concerning that gentleman, and required information; and Elizabeth
had such to send as might rather give contentment to her aunt than to
herself.
She likes to have the distinction of rank
preserved."
A
short pause followed this speech, and Mrs. Hurst began again:

"I have an excessive regard for Miss Jane Bennet, she is really a very
sweet girl, and I wish with all my heart she were well settled.
But to be candid without ostentation or design--to take the
good of everybody's character and make it still better, and say nothing
of the bad--belongs to you alone.
Let us hope, therefore, that her being
there may teach her her own insignificance.
At our time of life it is not so
pleasant, I can tell you, to be making new acquaintances every day; but
for your sakes, we would do anything.
Miss Bingley immediately fixed her eyes on his face, and desired he
would tell her what lady had the credit of inspiring such reflections.
"Yes, she called yesterday with her father.
"As much as I ever wish to be," cried Elizabeth very warmly.
Mr. Wickham was the happy man towards whom almost every female eye was
turned, and Elizabeth was the happy woman by whom he finally seated
himself; and the agreeable manner in which he immediately fell into
conversation, though it was only on its being a wet night, made her feel
that the commonest, dullest, most threadbare topic might be rendered
interesting by the skill of the speaker.
Mrs. Bennet had been strongly inclined to ask them to stay and dine
there that day; but, though she always kept a very good table, she did
not think anything less than two courses could be good enough for a man
on whom she had such anxious designs, or satisfy the appetite and pride
of one who had ten thousand a year.
Mr. Gardiner added in his letter, that they might expect to see their
father at home on the following day, which was Saturday.
He is come--Mr. Bingley is
come.
He leaves out half his words, and blots the rest."
"You may depend upon it, Madam," said Miss Bingley, with cold civility,
"that Miss Bennet will receive every possible attention while she
remains with us."
But now it was all too natural.
There
was also a legacy of one thousand pounds.
His father, Miss Bennet, the late Mr. Darcy, was one of the best men
that ever breathed, and the truest friend I ever had; and I can never
be in company with this Mr. Darcy without being grieved to the soul by
a thousand tender recollections.
When to these recollections was added the development of Wickham's
character, it may be easily believed that the happy spirits which had
seldom been depressed before, were now so much affected as to make it
almost impossible for her to appear tolerably cheerful.
"My dearest sister, now _be_ serious.
He walked here, and he walked there, fancying himself so very
great!
I
had hoped that our sentiments coincided in every particular, but I must
so far differ from you as to think our two youngest daughters uncommonly
foolish."
As Elizabeth had no longer any interest of her own to pursue, she turned
her attention almost entirely on her sister and Mr. Bingley; and the
train of agreeable reflections which her observations gave birth to,
made her perhaps almost as happy as Jane.
On the very last day of the regiment's remaining at Meryton, he dined,
with other of the officers, at Longbourn; and so little was Elizabeth
disposed to part from him in good humour, that on his making some
inquiry as to the manner in which her time had passed at Hunsford, she
mentioned Colonel Fitzwilliam's and Mr. Darcy's having both spent three
weeks at Rosings, and asked him, if he was acquainted with the former.
Elizabeth
noticed every sentence conveying the idea of uneasiness, with an
attention which it had hardly received on the first perusal.
Let them triumph over us at a distance, and be satisfied."
Till the
next morning, however, she was not aware of all the felicity of her
contrivance.
If
I had known as much this morning I certainly would not have called
on him.
Though she dared not depend upon the
consequence, she yet received pleasure from observing his behaviour.
"Next time you call," said she, "I hope we shall be more lucky."
She was convinced that
she could have been happy with him, when it was no longer likely they
should meet.
We may compare our different opinions."
But, Lizzy, you can tell
us whether it is like or not."
Is her husband, is the son of his
late father's steward, to be his brother?
These parties were acceptable to
all; to avoid a family circle was even more desirable to such as did
think, than such as did not.
But of this answer Lydia heard not a word.
A most welcome negative followed the last question--and her
alarms now being removed, she was at leisure to feel a great deal of
curiosity to see the house herself; and when the subject was revived the
next morning, and she was again applied to, could readily answer, and
with a proper air of indifference, that she had not really any dislike
to the scheme.
why is not everybody as happy?"
In everything else she is as
good-natured a girl as ever lived.
Well, I am sure I shall be extremely glad to see Mr.
Bingley.
I shall not go away till you have given me the
assurance I require."
People _did_ say
you meant to quit the place entirely at Michaelmas; but, however, I hope
it is not true.
Elizabeth had settled it that Mr. Darcy would bring his sister to visit
her the very day after her reaching Pemberley; and was consequently
resolved not to be out of sight of the inn the whole of that morning.
cried Jane, "what do you mean, sir?"
Ever since I have known it, I have been most anxious to
acknowledge to you how gratefully I feel it.
"And yet I meant to be uncommonly clever in taking so decided a dislike
to him, without any reason.
Elizabeth was glad to be taken to her
immediately; and Jane, who had only been withheld by the fear of giving
alarm or inconvenience from expressing in her note how much she longed
for such a visit, was delighted at her entrance.
I remember, as soon as ever I saw him, when
he first came into Hertfordshire last year, I thought how likely it was
that you should come together.
But I knew not--I was afraid of doing too
much.
Their visitors stayed with them above half-an-hour; and when they arose
to depart, Mr. Darcy called on his sister to join him in expressing
their wish of seeing Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner, and Miss Bennet, to dinner
at Pemberley, before they left the country.
The possibility of Mr. Collins's fancying himself in love with her
friend had once occurred to Elizabeth within the last day or two; but
that Charlotte could encourage him seemed almost as far from
possibility as she could encourage him herself, and her astonishment was
consequently so great as to overcome at first the bounds of decorum, and
she could not help crying out:

"Engaged to Mr. Collins!
"Mr. Darcy is impatient to see his sister; and, to confess the truth,
_we_ are scarcely less eager to meet her again.
By Elizabeth's instructions, she began to comprehend that
a woman may take liberties with her husband which a brother will not
always allow in a sister more than ten years younger than himself.
It is really too distressing.
The subjection in which his father had brought him up had
given him originally great humility of manner; but it was now a
good deal counteracted by the self-conceit of a weak head, living in
retirement, and the consequential feelings of early and unexpected
prosperity.
But the fact is, that we are very different sort
of men, and that he hates me."
But if you will listen to his letter, you may perhaps be a little
softened by his manner of expressing himself."
Lady Lucas quieted her fears
a little by starting the idea of his being gone to London only to get
a large party for the ball; and a report soon followed that Mr. Bingley
was to bring twelve ladies and seven gentlemen with him to the assembly.
She longed to
speak, but could think of nothing to say; and after a short silence Mrs.
Bennet began repeating her thanks to Mr. Bingley for his kindness to
Jane, with an apology for troubling him also with Lizzy.
Every girl in or near Meryton was out of her senses about him for
the first two months; but he never distinguished _her_ by any particular
attention; and, consequently, after a moderate period of extravagant and
wild admiration, her fancy for him gave way, and others of the regiment,
who treated her with more distinction, again became her favourites."
"If I can but see one of my daughters happily settled at Netherfield,"
said Mrs. Bennet to her husband, "and all the others equally well
married, I shall have nothing to wish for."
Mr.
Wickham's chief object was unquestionably my sister's fortune, which
is thirty thousand pounds; but I cannot help supposing that the hope of
revenging himself on me was a strong inducement.
My daughter and my
nephew are formed for each other.
You will
be censured, slighted, and despised, by everyone connected with him.
"That would be a good scheme," said Elizabeth, "if you were sure that
they would not offer to send her home."
He had certainly formed such a plan, and without
meaning that it should affect his endeavour to separate him from Miss
Bennet, it is probable that it might add something to his lively concern
for the welfare of his friend.
You are
not well enough; you cannot go yourself."
"I have no right to give _my_ opinion," said Wickham, "as to his being
agreeable or otherwise.
"There
is nothing the matter with me.
Miss Bennet had not been able to hear of his coming without changing
colour.
Elizabeth walked in quest of
the only face whose features would be known to her.
I have not been used to submit to any person's
whims.
This letter is from Mr.
At
present I will say nothing about it."
"They battled it together for a long time, which was more than either
the gentleman or lady concerned in it deserved.
Elizabeth assured him that she could suit herself perfectly with those
in the room.
How odious I should think them!"
I always thought they were very unfit to have the
charge of her; but I was overruled, as I always am.
Mr. Bennet and his daughters saw all the advantages of Wickham's removal
from the ----shire as clearly as Mr. Gardiner could do.
Elizabeth had now but little time for conversation with her sister; for
while he was present, Jane had no attention to bestow on anyone else;
but she found herself considerably useful to both of them in those hours
of separation that must sometimes occur.
"What could become of Mr. Bingley and Jane!"
It was then disclosed in the following
manner.
He joined them on their entering the town, and attended them to their
aunt's where his regret and vexation, and the concern of everybody, was
well talked over.
"I hope, my dear," said Mr. Bennet to his wife, as they were at
breakfast the next morning, "that you have ordered a good dinner to-day,
because I have reason to expect an addition to our family party."
"Something very much to the purpose of course.
"You have said quite enough, madam.
With a strong
prejudice against everything he might say, she began his account of what
had happened at Netherfield.
Through letters,
whatever of good or bad was to be told would be communicated, and every
succeeding day was expected to bring some news of importance.
"Well, mamma," said she, when they were all returned to the breakfast
room, "and what do you think of my husband?
"Now," said she, "that this first meeting is over, I feel perfectly
easy.
I never met with anybody who delighted me
so much.
She was a little revived, however, by his bringing back his coffee cup
himself; and she seized the opportunity of saying:

"Is your sister at Pemberley still?"
The evening passed quietly, unmarked by anything extraordinary.
"Another time, Lizzy," said her mother, "I would not dance with _him_,
if I were you."
Nay, when I read a letter of his, I cannot help giving
him the preference even over Wickham, much as I value the impudence and
hypocrisy of my son-in-law.
To such perseverance in wilful self-deception Elizabeth would make
no reply, and immediately and in silence withdrew; determined, if
he persisted in considering her repeated refusals as flattering
encouragement, to apply to her father, whose negative might be uttered
in such a manner as to be decisive, and whose behaviour at least could
not be mistaken for the affectation and coquetry of an elegant female.
Darcy made no answer, and seemed desirous of changing the subject.
Elizabeth had heard soon after her arrival that Mr. Darcy was
expected there in the course of a few weeks, and though there were not
many of her acquaintances whom she did not prefer, his coming would
furnish one comparatively new to look at in their Rosings parties, and
she might be amused in seeing how hopeless Miss Bingley's designs on him
were, by his behaviour to his cousin, for whom he was evidently
destined by Lady Catherine, who talked of his coming with the greatest
satisfaction, spoke of him in terms of the highest admiration, and
seemed almost angry to find that he had already been frequently seen by
Miss Lucas and herself.
No, Lizzy, let me once in my life feel how much I have
been to blame.
The second began.
"I do not believe Mrs. Long will do any such thing.
When Elizabeth had rejoiced over Wickham's departure she found little
other cause for satisfaction in the loss of the regiment.
"It
seems likely to have been a desirable match for Jane," said she.
"It has been a very agreeable day," said Miss Bennet to Elizabeth.
His countenance rather gained in austerity; and he scarcely
opened his lips.
Seriously, I would have you be on your guard.
You have a sweet room here, Mr. Bingley, and a
charming prospect over the gravel walk.
But, on second thoughts, perhaps,
Lizzy could tell us what relations he has now living, better than any
other person."
"Oh!"
How
grievous then was the thought that, of a situation so desirable in every
respect, so replete with advantage, so promising for happiness, Jane had
been deprived, by the folly and indecorum of her own family!
This was one point, with
regard to Lydia, at least, which was now to be settled, and Mr. Bennet
could have no hesitation in acceding to the proposal before him.
His acquaintance with Elizabeth was very trifling."
She hardly knew how to suppose that she could be an object of
admiration to so great a man; and yet that he should look at her
because he disliked her, was still more strange.
Lady Catherine hesitated for a moment, and then replied:

"The engagement between them is of a peculiar kind.
The sight
of Miss Lucas was odious to her.
"No," said Darcy, "I have made no such pretension.
Elizabeth now expected that she would produce a letter for her from
Charlotte, as it seemed the only probable motive for her calling.
It is almost past belief.
Not
that I care about it, though.
He began to feel the danger of paying Elizabeth too much attention.
You do not look
well.
As yet,
she cannot even be certain of the degree of her own regard nor of its
reasonableness.
You
will not thank me for detaining you from the bewitching converse of that
young lady, whose bright eyes are also upbraiding me."
His circumstances, he assured
me, and I had no difficulty in believing it, were exceedingly bad.
She could not yet recover from the
surprise of what had happened; it was impossible to think of anything
else; and, totally indisposed for employment, she resolved, soon after
breakfast, to indulge herself in air and exercise.
Jane was not deceived, but she was
affected; and though feeling no reliance on her, could not help writing
her a much kinder answer than she knew was deserved.
It
was, on the contrary, exactly calculated to make her understand her own
wishes; and never had she so honestly felt that she could have loved
him, as now, when all love must be vain.
But Mrs. Bennet
was not so well pleased with it.
"I want to know," said she, with a countenance no less smiling than her
sister's, "what you have learnt about Mr. Wickham.
Mr. Gardiner declared his
willingness, and Elizabeth was applied to for her approbation.
The
evening conversation, when they were all assembled, had lost much of
its animation, and almost all its sense by the absence of Jane and
Elizabeth.
But, however, that shan't prevent my asking him to dine here, I
am determined.
"The letter, perhaps, began in bitterness, but it did not end so.
Mary," said she, "I wish you had gone with us, for we had such fun!
"These are heavy misfortunes," replied Elizabeth.
The sudden acquisition of ten thousand pounds was the most
remarkable charm of the young lady to whom he was now rendering himself
agreeable; but Elizabeth, less clear-sighted perhaps in this case than
in Charlotte's, did not quarrel with him for his wish of independence.
Till this moment I never knew myself."
But she is
nothing to me now.
It was consoling that he should know she had
some relations for whom there was no need to blush.
This cannot be!
After waiting at home every morning
for a fortnight, and inventing every evening a fresh excuse for her, the
visitor did at last appear; but the shortness of her stay, and yet more,
the alteration of her manner would allow Jane to deceive herself no
longer.
In the dining-room they were soon joined by Mary and Kitty, who had been
too busily engaged in their separate apartments to make their appearance
before.
But there was much to be talked of in marrying her; and the
good-natured wishes for her well-doing which had proceeded before from
all the spiteful old ladies in Meryton lost but a little of their spirit
in this change of circumstances, because with such an husband her misery
was considered certain.
"If he does not come to me, _then_," said she, "I shall give him up for
ever."
She tried, however, to compose herself to
answer him with patience, when he should have done.
what is to become of us?
I knew how it would be.
"My dear Mr. Bennet," said his lady to him one day, "have you heard that
Netherfield Park is let at last?"
"All!
Mrs. Phillips's vulgarity was another, and perhaps a greater, tax on his
forbearance; and though Mrs. Phillips, as well as her sister, stood in
too much awe of him to speak with the familiarity which Bingley's good
humour encouraged, yet, whenever she _did_ speak, she must be vulgar.
They came.
As I must
therefore conclude that you are not serious in your rejection of me,
I shall choose to attribute it to your wish of increasing my love by
suspense, according to the usual practice of elegant females."
"I did not know that you intended to walk," said Miss Bingley, in some
confusion, lest they had been overheard.
The conversation soon turned upon fishing; and she heard Mr. Darcy
invite him, with the greatest civility, to fish there as often as he
chose while he continued in the neighbourhood, offering at the same time
to supply him with fishing tackle, and pointing out those parts of
the stream where there was usually most sport.
Many of his expressions were still fresh in her memory.
"I can comprehend your going on charmingly, when
you had once made a beginning; but what could set you off in the first
place?"
Happy for all her maternal feelings was the day on which Mrs. Bennet got
rid of her two most deserving daughters.
There is but such a quantity of merit between them; just
enough to make one good sort of man; and of late it has been shifting
about pretty much.
Lizzy is not a bit better than the
others; and I am sure she is not half so handsome as Jane, nor half so
good-humoured as Lydia.
He could not speak a word for full ten
minutes.
We acted with the best intentions."
cried Miss Bingley.
The tumult of Elizabeth's mind was allayed by this conversation.
It makes me very nervous and poorly, to be thwarted
so in my own family, and to have neighbours who think of themselves
before anybody else.
"No; he never saw him till the other morning at Meryton."
The
evening conversation, when they were all assembled, had lost much of
its animation, and almost all its sense by the absence of Jane and
Elizabeth.
"I have been used to consider poetry as the _food_ of love," said Darcy.
Mrs. Bennet was really in a most pitiable state.
I think I have heard you say that you know them."
"Thank you--but I always mend my own."
Be so kind as to apologise for us to Miss Darcy.
Mrs. Bennet, to whose apartment they all repaired, after a few minutes'
conversation together, received them exactly as might be expected; with
tears and lamentations of regret, invectives against the villainous
conduct of Wickham, and complaints of her own sufferings and ill-usage;
blaming everybody but the person to whose ill-judging indulgence the
errors of her daughter must principally be owing.
Never had his wit been directed in a manner so
little agreeable to her.
Mrs. Bennet, who fancied she had gained a complete
victory over him, continued her triumph.
"They battled it together for a long time, which was more than either
the gentleman or lady concerned in it deserved.
Mrs. Bennet, who fancied she had gained a complete
victory over him, continued her triumph.
But when they had withdrawn, he said to her: "Mrs.
Bennet, before you take any or all of these houses for your son and
daughter, let us come to a right understanding.
He then handed her
in, Maria followed, and the door was on the point of being closed,
when he suddenly reminded them, with some consternation, that they had
hitherto forgotten to leave any message for the ladies at Rosings.
Lady
Catherine is far from requiring that elegance of dress in us which
becomes herself and her daughter.
Oh, no."
Jane's is nothing to it--nothing at all.
Scarcely a syllable was
uttered that did not relate to the game, except when Mrs. Jenkinson
expressed her fears of Miss de Bourgh's being too hot or too cold, or
having too much or too little light.
This is not
the sort of happiness which a man would in general wish to owe to his
wife; but where other powers of entertainment are wanting, the true
philosopher will derive benefit from such as are given.
Little more than half a day's
journey.
But I shall not
scruple to assert, that the serenity of your sister's countenance and
air was such as might have given the most acute observer a conviction
that, however amiable her temper, her heart was not likely to be
easily touched.
This unfortunate affair will, I
fear, prevent my sister's having the pleasure of seeing you at Pemberley
to-day."
Lady Catherine, Sir William, and Mr. and Mrs. Collins sat
down to quadrille; and as Miss de Bourgh chose to play at cassino, the
two girls had the honour of assisting Mrs. Jenkinson to make up her
party.
said he,
as he joined her.
Importance may sometimes be purchased too dearly.
The look and behaviour of everybody they had seen were discussed,
except of the person who had mostly engaged their attention.
Not Lydia only, but all were concerned in it; and after the
first exclamations of surprise and horror, Mr. Gardiner promised every
assistance in his power.
_You_ wish to think all the
world respectable, and are hurt if I speak ill of anybody.
From what can
it proceed?
Every thing
that is charming!
A long dispute followed this declaration; but Mr. Bennet was firm.
my dear Lydia," she cried, "when shall we meet again?"
You will
be censured, slighted, and despised, by everyone connected with him.
When coffee was over, Colonel Fitzwilliam reminded Elizabeth of having
promised to play to him; and she sat down directly to the instrument.
The idea of Mr. Collins, with all his solemn composure, being run away
with by his feelings, made Elizabeth so near laughing, that she could
not use the short pause he allowed in any attempt to stop him further,
and he continued:

"My reasons for marrying are, first, that I think it a right thing for
every clergyman in easy circumstances (like myself) to set the example
of matrimony in his parish; secondly, that I am convinced that it will
add very greatly to my happiness; and thirdly--which perhaps I ought
to have mentioned earlier, that it is the particular advice and
recommendation of the very noble lady whom I have the honour of calling
patroness.
They descended the hill, crossed the bridge, and drove to the door; and,
while examining the nearer aspect of the house, all her apprehension of
meeting its owner returned.
Two of her
girls had been upon the point of marriage, and after all there was
nothing in it.
He expressed no regret for what he had done which satisfied
her; his style was not penitent, but haughty.
What
a contrast did it offer to his last address in Rosings Park, when he put
his letter into her hand!
Elizabeth could not help smiling at his easy manner of directing his
friend.
In understanding, Darcy was the superior.
"Was there no good in your affectionate behaviour to Jane while she was
ill at Netherfield?"
He then sat down by her, and talked scarcely to anyone
else.
Her dirty petticoat quite
escaped my notice."
"He has been so unlucky as to lose _your_ friendship," replied Elizabeth
with emphasis, "and in a manner which he is likely to suffer from all
his life."
"You excel so much in the dance, Miss Eliza, that it is cruel to deny
me the happiness of seeing you; and though this gentleman dislikes the
amusement in general, he can have no objection, I am sure, to oblige us
for one half-hour."
How
thankful am I that we never let them know what has been said against
him; we must forget it ourselves.
And when you have given _your_ ball," she
added, "I shall insist on their giving one also.
"I will not trust myself on the subject," replied Wickham; "I can hardly
be just to him."
"We shall often meet, I hope, in Hertfordshire."
Elizabeth preserved as steady a
silence as either Mrs. Hurst or Miss Bingley; and even Lydia was too
much fatigued to utter more than the occasional exclamation of "Lord,
how tired I am!"
and having to relate such a thing
of his sister!
By tea-time, however, the dose had been enough, and Mr. Bennet was glad
to take his guest into the drawing-room again, and, when tea was over,
glad to invite him to read aloud to the ladies.
I shall
pull it to pieces as soon as I get home, and see if I can make it up any
better."
They must all go to Brighton.
"Hunsford, near Westerham, Kent, 15th October.
Every thing was too recent for
gaiety, but the evening passed tranquilly away; there was no longer
anything material to be dreaded, and the comfort of ease and familiarity
would come in time.
The Netherfield
ladies would have had difficulty in believing that a man who lived
by trade, and within view of his own warehouses, could have been so
well-bred and agreeable.
The latter was
thinking only of his breakfast.
"Shall we ask him why a man of sense and
education, and who has lived in the world, is ill qualified to recommend
himself to strangers?"
He
_was_ coming to us, in order to assure us of his concern, before he had
any idea of their not being gone to Scotland: when that apprehension
first got abroad, it hastened his journey."
But of this answer Lydia heard not a word.
how I should like to be married before any of you; and then I would
chaperon you about to all the balls.
Adieu to disappointment and spleen.
When that business was over, he applied to Miss Bingley and Elizabeth
for an indulgence of some music.
"I do not know.
Are any of your
younger sisters out, Miss Bennet?"
cried Elizabeth, as soon as they
were by themselves.
He could number the
fields in every direction, and could tell how many trees there were in
the most distant clump.
"Well, then--supposing them to be in London.
I am not romantic, you know; I never
was.
His
ease and cheerfulness rendered him a most agreeable addition to their
evening party; and he bore with the ill-judged officiousness of the
mother, and heard all her silly remarks with a forbearance and command
of countenance particularly grateful to the daughter.
"It ought to be so; it must be so, while he retains the use of his
reason.
Let me never see either
one or the other again!"
While thus engaged, Elizabeth had a fair opportunity of deciding whether
she most feared or wished for the appearance of Mr. Darcy, by the
feelings which prevailed on his entering the room; and then, though but
a moment before she had believed her wishes to predominate, she began to
regret that he came.
Is not general incivility the very essence of love?"
Does it not expressly declare that
Caroline neither expects nor wishes me to be her sister; that she is
perfectly convinced of her brother's indifference; and that if she
suspects the nature of my feelings for him, she means (most kindly!)
I hope you will
drink to our good journey.
"Miss Eliza Bennet," said Miss Bingley, "despises cards.
for I ought not to have mentioned the
subject.
"And I have another favour to ask you.
She has been doing
everything in her power by thinking and talking on the subject, to give
greater--what shall I call it?
If gratitude and esteem are good foundations of affection, Elizabeth's
change of sentiment will be neither improbable nor faulty.
Collins, you
must marry.
The usual inquiries as to his success was
made by the latter.
Upon the whole, therefore, she found, what
has been sometimes found before, that an event to which she had been
looking with impatient desire did not, in taking place, bring all the
satisfaction she had promised herself.
To be fond of
dancing was a certain step towards falling in love; and very lively
hopes of Mr. Bingley's heart were entertained.
He
inquired in a friendly, though general way, after her family, and looked
and spoke with the same good-humoured ease that he had ever done.
His answer to this
sudden attack was delightful to their mother's ear:

"I am perfectly ready, I assure you, to keep my engagement; and when
your sister is recovered, you shall, if you please, name the very day of
the ball.
She put down
the letter, weighed every circumstance with what she meant to be
impartiality--deliberated on the probability of each statement--but with
little success.
"You dislike an argument,
and want to silence this."
"Write to me very often, my dear."
"It has been a very agreeable day," said Miss Bennet to Elizabeth.
"Indeed!"
Away ran the girls, too eager to get in to have time for speech.
Let me congratulate you on a very important conquest."
Give me further particulars.
"Oh!
Elizabeth merely
curtseyed to him without saying a word.
Elizabeth was excessively disappointed; she had set her heart on seeing
the Lakes, and still thought there might have been time enough.
It now occurred to the girls that their mother was in all likelihood
perfectly ignorant of what had happened.
Lydia does not leave me because she is married,
but only because her husband's regiment happens to be so far off.
"Now I have got some news for you," said Lydia, as they sat down at
table.
Though Elizabeth would not, for the mere purpose of obliging Lady
Catherine, have answered this question, she could not but say, after a
moment's deliberation:

"I am not."
"Lady Catherine, I have nothing further to say.
"Why will you think so?
cried Miss Bingley, "Charles writes in the most careless way
imaginable.
I expected
you to stay two months.
People who suffer as I do from nervous complaints can have
no great inclination for talking.
"Laugh as much as you choose, but you will not laugh me out of my
opinion.
I always say that nothing is to be done in education without steady
and regular instruction, and nobody but a governess can give it.
I quite detest the man."
After playing some Italian songs, Miss Bingley varied the charm by
a lively Scotch air; and soon afterwards Mr. Darcy, drawing near
Elizabeth, said to her:

"Do not you feel a great inclination, Miss Bennet, to seize such an
opportunity of dancing a reel?"
And when I returned home, the ----shire
was to leave Meryton in a week or fortnight's time.
"This is no very striking resemblance of your own character, I am sure,"
said he.
Elizabeth disdained the appearance of noticing this civil reflection,
but its meaning did not escape, nor was it likely to conciliate her.
As her successor in that house, she
regarded her with jealous abhorrence.
The carriage was sent to
meet them at ----, and they were to return in it by dinner-time.
In revolving Lady Catherine's expressions, however, she could not help
feeling some uneasiness as to the possible consequence of her persisting
in this interference.
And what claims has Lydia--what attraction has she
beyond youth, health, and good humour that could make him, for her sake,
forego every chance of benefiting himself by marrying well?
He should be particularly happy at any time, etc.
Are you out of your senses, to be
accepting this man?
or under what misrepresentation can you here impose upon others?"
His choice is
disinterested at least, for he must know my father can give her nothing.
The suspicions which had just
arisen of Mr. Darcy and their niece directed their observation towards
each with an earnest though guarded inquiry; and they soon drew from
those inquiries the full conviction that one of them at least knew
what it was to love.
We seem to have been designed for each
other."
She represented to her sister as forcibly as possible what she felt
on the subject, and had soon the pleasure of seeing its happy effect.
And now nothing
remains for me but to assure you in the most animated language of the
violence of my affection.
Elizabeth felt Jane's
pleasure.
Their powers of conversation were considerable.
Indeed, Mr. Darcy, it is very ungenerous in you to mention all
that you knew to my disadvantage in Hertfordshire--and, give me leave to
say, very impolitic too--for it is provoking me to retaliate, and such
things may come out as will shock your relations to hear."
"If I have, I shall be the last person to confess it."
Her ladyship,
with great condescension, arose to receive them; and as Mrs. Collins had
settled it with her husband that the office of introduction should
be hers, it was performed in a proper manner, without any of those
apologies and thanks which he would have thought necessary.
of all his sister's falsehood and contrivance!
I appeal to Mr. Darcy:--but let me not interrupt you, sir.
Let me do it without further loss of time.
Elizabeth most thankfully consented, and a servant was dispatched to
Longbourn to acquaint the family with her stay and bring back a supply
of clothes.
The gentlemen did approach, and when Mr. Wickham walked into the room,
Elizabeth felt that she had neither been seeing him before, nor thinking
of him since, with the smallest degree of unreasonable admiration.
"I have no reason, I assure you," said he, "to be dissatisfied with my
reception.
At length, quite exhausted by the attempt to be
amused with her own book, which she had only chosen because it was the
second volume of his, she gave a great yawn and said, "How pleasant
it is to spend an evening in this way!
Jane's delicate sense of honour would not allow her to speak to
Elizabeth privately of what Lydia had let fall; Elizabeth was glad
of it;--till it appeared whether her inquiries would receive any
satisfaction, she had rather be without a confidante.
Elizabeth hesitated, but her knees trembled under her and she felt how
little would be gained by her attempting to pursue them.
"Oh!
I understand that Mr. Collins has made
you an offer of marriage.
But papa is so
disagreeable."
"_That_ is a failing indeed!"
No one admitted to the privilege of hearing you can
think anything wanting.
It is from my cousin, Mr. Collins, who, when I am dead,
may turn you all out of this house as soon as he pleases."
From the entrance-hall, of which Mr. Collins pointed out, with a
rapturous air, the fine proportion and the finished ornaments, they
followed the servants through an ante-chamber, to the room where Lady
Catherine, her daughter, and Mrs. Jenkinson were sitting.
They must have seen them together for ever."
She stared, coloured,
doubted, and was silent.
Her colour changed,
and she said no more.
My feelings will not be
repressed.
And, besides, no traces of them were to be found on the
Barnet road."
The latter was
thinking only of his breakfast.
When tea was over, Mr. Hurst reminded his sister-in-law of the
card-table--but in vain.
It originated
in Mrs. Gardiner, who, fatigued by the exercise of the morning, found
Elizabeth's arm inadequate to her support, and consequently preferred
her husband's.
Mr. Darcy walked off; and Elizabeth
remained with no very cordial feelings toward him.
"It
would be nothing; I could see him with perfect indifference, but I can
hardly bear to hear it thus perpetually talked of.
It was too early in the morning for visitors, and besides, the
equipage did not answer to that of any of their neighbours.
"It
would be nothing; I could see him with perfect indifference, but I can
hardly bear to hear it thus perpetually talked of.
If it was
not for the entail, I should not mind it."
Mary petitioned for the use of the library at Netherfield; and Kitty
begged very hard for a few balls there every winter.
"What do you mean?"
No thanks to his gallantry for that.
It
was hardly enough; but it pleased her.
"Pride," observed Mary, who piqued herself upon the solidity of her
reflections, "is a very common failing, I believe.
Mrs. Bennet had no turn for economy, and her
husband's love of independence had alone prevented their exceeding their
income.
She
had never seen a place for which nature had done more, or where natural
beauty had been so little counteracted by an awkward taste.
But they were entirely ignorant of what had passed; and their raptures
continued, with little intermission, to the very day of Lydia's leaving
home.
Miss Bingley saw, or suspected enough to be jealous; and her great
anxiety for the recovery of her dear friend Jane received some
assistance from her desire of getting rid of Elizabeth.
He believed him to be imprudent and extravagant.
He seldom appeared really
animated.
He then recollected her embarrassment a few days before, on his reading
Mr. Collins's letter; and after laughing at her some time, allowed her
at last to go--saying, as she quitted the room, "If any young men come
for Mary or Kitty, send them in, for I am quite at leisure."
Bennet.'
To Mr. Darcy it was welcome intelligence--Elizabeth had been at
Netherfield long enough.
"They are wanted in the farm much oftener than I can get them."
The attention of
the younger ones was then no longer to be gained by him.
Mr. Darcy's letter to Lady Catherine was in a different style; and still
different from either was what Mr. Bennet sent to Mr. Collins, in reply
to his last.
Bingley
was sure of being liked wherever he appeared, Darcy was continually
giving offense.
"But you see that Jane," said her aunt, "does not think so very ill of
Wickham as to believe him capable of the attempt."
She then yawned again, threw aside her book, and
cast her eyes round the room in quest for some amusement; when hearing
her brother mentioning a ball to Miss Bennet, she turned suddenly
towards him and said:

"By the bye, Charles, are you really serious in meditating a dance at
Netherfield?
She directly replied:

"You need not be frightened.
To Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner he was scarcely a less interesting personage
than to herself.
It was not to be supposed that time would give Lydia that embarrassment
from which she had been so wholly free at first.
As it was certain, however, that
somebody was coming, Bingley instantly prevailed on Miss Bennet to avoid
the confinement of such an intrusion, and walk away with him into the
shrubbery.
The day passed most pleasantly away; the morning in bustle and
shopping, and the evening at one of the theatres.
"We were born in the same parish, within the same park; the greatest
part of our youth was passed together; inmates of the same house,
sharing the same amusements, objects of the same parental care.
"It was the prospect of constant society, and good society," he added,
"which was my chief inducement to enter the ----shire.
Forgive
me; and if you persist in indifference, do not make me your confidante."
And her neighbours
at Lucas Lodge, therefore (for through their communication with the
Collinses, the report, she concluded, had reached Lady Catherine), had
only set that down as almost certain and immediate, which she had looked
forward to as possible at some future time.
She was a little revived, however, by his bringing back his coffee cup
himself; and she seized the opportunity of saying:

"Is your sister at Pemberley still?"
How well
it sounds!
"A gentleman and a stranger!
But how came you to tell me that he was so
disagreeable?"
If I were not afraid of judging harshly, I should
be almost tempted to say that there is a strong appearance of duplicity
in all this.
I am always glad to get a young person well placed out.
Three daughters married!
To my fancy, it is only because he does not rattle away
like other young men."
"He is perfectly well behaved, polite, and unassuming," said her uncle.
"Now I have got some news for you," said Lydia, as they sat down at
table.
There is nothing else to be done.
Bingley was punctual to his appointment; and he and Mr. Bennet spent
the morning together, as had been agreed on.
Could there be
finer symptoms?
You could scarcely escape
discredit and misery.
Jane should
therefore make the most of every half-hour in which she can command his
attention.
Can there be any other opinion on the subject?"
"From the former.
"If he wants our society,
let him seek it.
"He is perfectly well behaved, polite, and unassuming," said her uncle.
"Very well.
Perhaps this
concealment, this disguise was beneath me; it is done, however, and it
was done for the best.
She has no money, no
connections, nothing that can tempt him to--she is lost for ever."
"Oh!
If, in the explanation of them, which
is due to myself, I am under the necessity of relating feelings which
may be offensive to yours, I can only say that I am sorry.
She was humbled, she was grieved; she repented, though she
hardly knew of what.
"You write uncommonly fast."
They are in the same profession, you know, only in different
lines.
The rest of his letter is only about his dear Charlotte's
situation, and his expectation of a young olive-branch.
You will not be fit to be seen when you get
there."
Respect,
esteem, and confidence had vanished for ever; and all his views
of domestic happiness were overthrown.
Mr. Bennet protested against any
description of finery.
You have deprived the best years of his life of that independence
which was no less his due than his desert.
But I have
other provocations.
There was no help
for it, however.
Elizabeth preserved as steady a
silence as either Mrs. Hurst or Miss Bingley; and even Lydia was too
much fatigued to utter more than the occasional exclamation of "Lord,
how tired I am!"
Poor Kitty has
anger for having concealed their attachment; but as it was a matter of
confidence, one cannot wonder.
Eager to be alone, and fearful of inquiries or hints from her
uncle and aunt, she stayed with them only long enough to hear their
favourable opinion of Bingley, and then hurried away to dress.
By supposing such an
affection, you make everybody acting unnaturally and wrong, and me most
unhappy.
It was all conjecture."
Every day at Longbourn was now a day of anxiety; but the most anxious
part of each was when the post was expected.
Mr. Wickham was the happy man towards whom almost every female eye was
turned, and Elizabeth was the happy woman by whom he finally seated
himself; and the agreeable manner in which he immediately fell into
conversation, though it was only on its being a wet night, made her feel
that the commonest, dullest, most threadbare topic might be rendered
interesting by the skill of the speaker.
You shall not defend her, though
it is Charlotte Lucas.
Her
heart did whisper that he had done it for her.
They had several children.
there is such an expression of goodness in his
countenance!
I shall go distracted."
She was engaged one day as she walked, in perusing Jane's last letter,
and dwelling on some passages which proved that Jane had not written in
spirits, when, instead of being again surprised by Mr. Darcy, she saw
on looking up that Colonel Fitzwilliam was meeting her.
Since such were her feelings,
it only remained, he thought, to secure and expedite a marriage, which,
in his very first conversation with Wickham, he easily learnt had never
been _his_ design.
"When I consider," she added in a yet
more agitated voice, "that I might have prevented it!
"Care of him!
Elizabeth, though expecting no less, thanked
him with tears of gratitude; and all three being actuated by one spirit,
everything relating to their journey was speedily settled.
Mrs. Bennet's best
comfort was that Mr. Bingley must be down again in the summer.
"I believe I have now told you every thing.
It must be an amusing study."
Elizabeth disdained the appearance of noticing this civil reflection,
but its meaning did not escape, nor was it likely to conciliate her.
She longed to know what at the moment was passing in his mind--in
what manner he thought of her, and whether, in defiance of everything,
she was still dear to him.
Kitty owned that
she had rather stay at home.
"When all this was resolved on, he returned again to his friends, who
were still staying at Pemberley; but it was agreed that he should be in
London once more when the wedding took place, and all money matters were
then to receive the last finish.
Their lodgings were not long a
secret, and at length they began to know the officers themselves.
You
may have drawn him in."
I rather wished, than believed
him to be sincere; but, at any rate, was perfectly ready to accede to
his proposal.
What Wickham had said of the living
was fresh in her memory, and as she recalled his very words, it was
impossible not to feel that there was gross duplicity on one side or the
other; and, for a few moments, she flattered herself that her wishes did
not err.
"Well," cried her mother, "it is all very right; who should do it but
her own uncle?
Mrs. Bennet's eyes sparkled with pleasure, and she was
eagerly calling out, while her daughter read,

"Well, Jane, who is it from?
Though I
shall always say he used my daughter extremely ill; and if I was her, I
would not have put up with it.
"But my father cannot.
"I do not recollect that we did."
"By this time, my dearest sister, you have received my hurried letter; I
wish this may be more intelligible, but though not confined for time, my
head is so bewildered that I cannot answer for being coherent.
We
shall be at Newcastle all the winter, and I dare say there will be some
balls, and I will take care to get good partners for them all."
I am almost the nearest relation he has in the world,
and am entitled to know all his dearest concerns."
what has she to do with it?
With _your_
good sense, to be so honestly blind to the follies and nonsense of
others!
After abusing you so
abominably to your face, I could have no scruple in abusing you to all
your relations."
The first two dances, however, brought a return of distress;
they were dances of mortification.
Colonel Forster believed that more than a
thousand pounds would be necessary to clear his expenses at Brighton.
"Probably not; but Mr. Darcy can please where he chooses.
"Did you speak from your own observation," said she, "when you told him
that my sister loved him, or merely from my information last spring?"
Kitty owned that
she had rather stay at home.
March was to take
Elizabeth to Hunsford.
"These are home questions--and perhaps I cannot say that I have
experienced many hardships of that nature.
He has also _brotherly_ pride,
which, with _some_ brotherly affection, makes him a very kind and
careful guardian of his sister, and you will hear him generally cried up
as the most attentive and best of brothers."
When I last saw her, she was not very promising.
It was an
encouragement of vice; and had I been the rector of Longbourn, I should
very strenuously have opposed it.
You have
withheld the advantages which you must know to have been designed for
him.
But I
cannot--I have never desired your good opinion, and you have certainly
bestowed it most unwillingly.
Mr. Wickham did not play at whist, and with ready delight was he
received at the other table between Elizabeth and Lydia.
I talked
about the dance, and _you_ ought to make some sort of remark on the size
of the room, or the number of couples."
Elizabeth was
surprised, however, that Wickham should consent to such a scheme, and
had she consulted only her own inclination, any meeting with him would
have been the last object of her wishes.
"My dear sir," replied Mr. Collins, "I am particularly obliged to you
for this friendly caution, and you may depend upon my not taking so
material a step without her ladyship's concurrence."
He answered her in the same style, and the subject dropped.
They talked
of his sister, his friends, his house, his fruit--of everything but
himself; yet Elizabeth was longing to know what Mrs. Gardiner thought of
him, and Mrs. Gardiner would have been highly gratified by her niece's
beginning the subject.
But your
_family_ owe me nothing.
He can have nothing to say to me that anybody need not hear.
How can Mr. Bingley,
who seems good humour itself, and is, I really believe, truly amiable,
be in friendship with such a man?
When first
he entered the corps, she was ready enough to admire him; but so we all
were.
To Mr. Bennet's
acknowledgments he briefly replied, with assurance of his eagerness to
promote the welfare of any of his family; and concluded with entreaties
that the subject might never be mentioned to him again.
This was a lucky recollection--it saved her from something very like
regret.
"What is Mr. Darcy to me, pray, that I should be afraid of him?
His letter was soon
dispatched; for, though dilatory in undertaking business, he was quick
in its execution.
Elizabeth was pleased; though when
she asked herself the reason, she had very little to say in reply.
Four weeks passed away, and Jane saw nothing of him.
I knew how it
would be.
But their
father, though very laconic in his expressions of pleasure, was really
glad to see them; he had felt their importance in the family circle.
I did not wink at you."
This is the last time I shall ever
remember it myself."
No, Kitty, I have at last learnt to be cautious, and
you will feel the effects of it.
"Oh!
no."
Mr. Gardiner would be prevented by business from
setting out till a fortnight later in July, and must be in London again
within a month, and as that left too short a period for them to go so
far, and see so much as they had proposed, or at least to see it with
the leisure and comfort they had built on, they were obliged to give up
the Lakes, and substitute a more contracted tour, and, according to the
present plan, were to go no farther northwards than Derbyshire.
Your ladyship wants Mr. Darcy to marry
your daughter; but would my giving you the wished-for promise make their
marriage at all more probable?
"But if I do not take your likeness now, I may never have another
opportunity."
How
grievous then was the thought that, of a situation so desirable in every
respect, so replete with advantage, so promising for happiness, Jane had
been deprived, by the folly and indecorum of her own family!
The ladies of Longbourn soon waited on those of Netherfield.
The whole family, in short,
were properly overjoyed on the occasion.
His letter was soon
dispatched; for, though dilatory in undertaking business, he was quick
in its execution.
Her daughters listened in silence to this effusion, sensible that
any attempt to reason with her or soothe her would only increase the
irritation.
Upon the whole, I am much pleased with him."
you mean Jane, I suppose, because he danced with her twice.
At last she recollected
that she had been travelling, and they talked of Matlock and Dove Dale
with great perseverance.
If he had been so very
agreeable, he would have talked to Mrs. Long.
"I am very sensible, madam, of the hardship to my fair cousins, and
could say much on the subject, but that I am cautious of appearing
forward and precipitate.
I told Mrs. Collins so before you came.
But there was much to be talked of in marrying her; and the
good-natured wishes for her well-doing which had proceeded before from
all the spiteful old ladies in Meryton lost but a little of their spirit
in this change of circumstances, because with such an husband her misery
was considered certain.
It
gave her all the animation that her spirits could boast; for she was in
no cheerful humour.
But these, I suppose, are precisely
what you are without."
We must have Mrs. Long and the Gouldings soon.
Jane's is nothing to it--nothing at all.
They were always moving from place to place in quest of a cheap
situation, and always spending more than they ought.
It was not known that Wickham had a single relationship with whom he
kept up any connection, and it was certain that he had no near one
living.
And as to laughter, we will
not expose ourselves, if you please, by attempting to laugh without a
subject.
They soon outstripped the others, and when they had
reached the carriage, Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner were half a quarter of a
mile behind.
Miss Bingley made no answer, and soon afterwards she got up and walked
about the room.
As to what
restraint the apprehensions of disgrace in the corps might throw on a
dishonourable elopement with her, I am not able to judge; for I know
nothing of the effects that such a step might produce.
"They met several times, for there was much to be discussed.
If I had ever learnt,
I should have been a great proficient.
But, however, he
did not.
Mrs. Collins welcomed her friend with the
liveliest pleasure, and Elizabeth was more and more satisfied with
coming when she found herself so affectionately received.
But our visitor was very obstinate.
They found Mr. Bennet still up.
A low phaeton, with a nice little
pair of ponies, would be the very thing.
He is perfectly amiable.
"Why, if he came only to be silent, grave, and indifferent," said she,
"did he come at all?"
He had before believed her to return his
affection with sincere, if not with equal regard.
Elizabeth, as they drove along, watched for the first appearance of
Pemberley Woods with some perturbation; and when at length they turned
in at the lodge, her spirits were in a high flutter.
Elizabeth looked at Darcy to see how cordially he assented to his
cousin's praise; but neither at that moment nor at any other could she
discern any symptom of love; and from the whole of his behaviour to Miss
de Bourgh she derived this comfort for Miss Bingley, that he might have
been just as likely to marry _her_, had she been his relation.
Will you come and see me?"
I would go and see her if I could have the carriage."
As they walked home, Elizabeth related to Jane what she had seen pass
between the two gentlemen; but though Jane would have defended either
or both, had they appeared to be in the wrong, she could no more explain
such behaviour than her sister.
But as to your
other objection, I am afraid it will hardly hold good.
His countenance, voice, and manner had
established him at once in the possession of every virtue.
"La!
But on the following morning, every hope of this
kind was done away.
Her hopes were answered; Jane had not been gone long before
it rained hard.
_Her_ mind
was less difficult to develop.
No look
appeared on either side that spoke particular regard.
"He
only told me what I have now told you."
You
see how continually we are engaged there.
"My manners must have been in fault, but not intentionally, I assure
you.
He meant to resign his commission immediately; and as
to his future situation, he could conjecture very little about it.
He had not been long seated
before he complimented Mrs. Bennet on having so fine a family of
daughters; said he had heard much of their beauty, but that in this
instance fame had fallen short of the truth; and added, that he did
not doubt her seeing them all in due time disposed of in marriage.
Your
idea of the ponies is delightful.
Mrs. Bennet was quite
disconcerted.
She
could not win him, however, to any conversation; he merely answered her
question, and read on.
She was in no humour for conversation with anyone but himself; and to
him she had hardly courage to speak.
Her heart was divided between concern
for her sister, and resentment against all others.
"There is, I believe, in every disposition a tendency to some particular
evil--a natural defect, which not even the best education can overcome."
cried Elizabeth.
Elizabeth looked at Darcy to see how cordially he assented to his
cousin's praise; but neither at that moment nor at any other could she
discern any symptom of love; and from the whole of his behaviour to Miss
de Bourgh she derived this comfort for Miss Bingley, that he might have
been just as likely to marry _her_, had she been his relation.
Miss de Bourgh was pale and sickly; her
features, though not plain, were insignificant; and she spoke very
little, except in a low voice, to Mrs. Jenkinson, in whose appearance
there was nothing remarkable, and who was entirely engaged in listening
to what she said, and placing a screen in the proper direction before
her eyes.
"Pride," observed Mary, who piqued herself upon the solidity of her
reflections, "is a very common failing, I believe.
But above all, above respect and esteem,
there was a motive within her of goodwill which could not be overlooked.
But she
had chosen it with her eyes open; and though evidently regretting that
her visitors were to go, she did not seem to ask for compassion.
my dear," said Maria, quite shocked at the mistake, "it is not
Lady Catherine.
But I will no longer importune my young cousin."
"They are generally long; but whether always charming it is not for me
to determine."
Elizabeth could not oppose such a wish; and from this time Mr. Bingley's
name was scarcely ever mentioned between them.
She found it difficult to obtain even a word from
her beyond a monosyllable.
Elizabeth most thankfully consented, and a servant was dispatched to
Longbourn to acquaint the family with her stay and bring back a supply
of clothes.
Mr. Bennet could not have chosen
better.
"Lady Catherine is a very respectable, sensible woman indeed," added
Charlotte, "and a most attentive neighbour."
He must write his own sermons; and the time
that remains will not be too much for his parish duties, and the care
and improvement of his dwelling, which he cannot be excused from making
as comfortable as possible.
Your
retrospections must be so totally void of reproach, that the contentment
arising from them is not of philosophy, but, what is much better, of
innocence.
After a short silence, the lady first spoke.
Mr. Darcy smiled; but Elizabeth thought she could perceive that he was
rather offended, and therefore checked her laugh.
The entertainment of dining at Rosings was repeated about twice a week;
and, allowing for the loss of Sir William, and there being only one
card-table in the evening, every such entertainment was the counterpart
of the first.
It is only that he has better means of having it
than many others, because he is rich, and many others are poor.
She knew not the exact degree of his affection for his
aunt, or his dependence on her judgment, but it was natural to suppose
that he thought much higher of her ladyship than _she_ could do; and it
was certain that, in enumerating the miseries of a marriage with _one_,
whose immediate connections were so unequal to his own, his aunt would
address him on his weakest side.
It was absolutely necessary to interrupt him now.
A low phaeton, with a nice little
pair of ponies, would be the very thing.
His choice is
disinterested at least, for he must know my father can give her nothing.
"But what," said she, after a pause, "can have been his motive?
I never heard of her existence till the day before
yesterday."
"Yes, ma'am, all."
"They are going to be encamped near Brighton; and I do so want papa to
take us all there for the summer!
Never mind Miss
Lizzy's hair."
"Then," observed Elizabeth, "you must comprehend a great deal in your
idea of an accomplished woman."
"Not so hasty, if you please.
Proud that in a cause
of compassion and honour, he had been able to get the better of himself.
There was too much to
be thought, and felt, and said, for attention to any other objects.
There is not a
finer county in England than Derbyshire."
"Upon my word, I say no more _here_ than I might say in any house in
the neighbourhood, except Netherfield.
I am so happy!
They entered the woods, and bidding adieu to the river for a while,
ascended some of the higher grounds; when, in spots where the opening of
the trees gave the eye power to wander, were many charming views of the
valley, the opposite hills, with the long range of woods overspreading
many, and occasionally part of the stream.
"You must be surprised,
very much surprised--so lately as Mr. Collins was wishing to marry
you.
Bingley was all grateful pleasure,
and he readily engaged for taking the earliest opportunity of waiting on
her, after his return from London, whither he was obliged to go the next
day for a short time.
It has often led him to be liberal and generous, to give his money
freely, to display hospitality, to assist his tenants, and relieve the
poor.
"On the very day of my coming home from Longbourn, your uncle had a most
unexpected visitor.
She had not at first thought very seriously of
going thither; but Charlotte, she soon found, was depending on the plan
and she gradually learned to consider it herself with greater pleasure
as well as greater certainty.
I
had hoped that our sentiments coincided in every particular, but I must
so far differ from you as to think our two youngest daughters uncommonly
foolish."
His marriage was
now fast approaching, and she was at length so far resigned as to think
it inevitable, and even repeatedly to say, in an ill-natured tone, that
she "_wished_ they might be happy."
A great many changes have happened in the neighbourhood,
since you went away.
"From Mr. Collins!
The far and the near must be relative, and depend on many
varying circumstances.
But that is not the
case _here_.
Mr. Darcy replied with great intrepidity:

"Miss Elizabeth Bennet."
Elizabeth, as she affectionately embraced her, whilst tears filled the
eyes of both, lost not a moment in asking whether anything had been
heard of the fugitives.
He is the kind
of man, indeed, to whom I should never dare refuse anything, which he
condescended to ask.
It became her turn to listen.
"There were some very strong objections against the lady," were Colonel
Fitzwilliam's words; and those strong objections probably were, her
having one uncle who was a country attorney, and another who was in
business in London.
However,
I recollected afterwards that if he had been prevented going, the
wedding need not be put off, for Mr. Darcy might have done as well."
Four sides of paper were
insufficient to contain all her delight, and all her earnest desire of
being loved by her sister.
Well, much good may it do them!
We do not suffer by _accident_.
When those dances
were over, she returned to Charlotte Lucas, and was in conversation with
her, when she found herself suddenly addressed by Mr. Darcy who took
her so much by surprise in his application for her hand, that,
without knowing what she did, she accepted him.
"Oh!
and, with no little alarm, whether the family were down for
the summer?
In the former were many good paintings;
but Elizabeth knew nothing of the art; and from such as had been already
visible below, she had willingly turned to look at some drawings of Miss
Darcy's, in crayons, whose subjects were usually more interesting, and
also more intelligible.
There is so much of gratitude or vanity in almost every
attachment, that it is not safe to leave any to itself.
After
pausing on this point a considerable while, she once more continued to
read.
His father, Miss Bennet, the late Mr. Darcy, was one of the best men
that ever breathed, and the truest friend I ever had; and I can never
be in company with this Mr. Darcy without being grieved to the soul by
a thousand tender recollections.
My dear Jane, Mr. Collins is a
conceited, pompous, narrow-minded, silly man; you know he is, as well as
I do; and you must feel, as well as I do, that the woman who married him
cannot have a proper way of thinking.
In
the desperation of her feelings, she resolved on one effort more, and,
turning to Elizabeth, said:

"Miss Eliza Bennet, let me persuade you to follow my example, and take a
turn about the room.
He
must know that she was as amiable and unpretending as we have found
her."
Having never even fancied herself
in love before, her regard had all the warmth of first attachment,
and, from her age and disposition, greater steadiness than most first
attachments often boast; and so fervently did she value his remembrance,
and prefer him to every other man, that all her good sense, and all her
attention to the feelings of her friends, were requisite to check the
indulgence of those regrets which must have been injurious to her own
health and their tranquillity.
He declared himself to be totally unsuspicious of her
sister's attachment; and she could not help remembering what Charlotte's
opinion had always been.
The Miss
Webbs all play, and their father has not so good an income as yours.
The pause was to Elizabeth's feelings
dreadful.
As her successor in that house, she
regarded her with jealous abhorrence.
The park was very large, and contained great variety of ground.
"A thorough, determined dislike of me--a dislike which I cannot but
attribute in some measure to jealousy.
I had not the smallest idea of their being ever felt in such
a way."
They proceeded in silence along the gravel walk
that led to the copse; Elizabeth was determined to make no effort for
conversation with a woman who was now more than usually insolent and
disagreeable.
Poor Charlotte!
I am cruelly used,
nobody feels for my poor nerves."
Allow me, by the
way, to observe, my fair cousin, that I do not reckon the notice
and kindness of Lady Catherine de Bourgh as among the least of the
advantages in my power to offer.
By supposing such an
affection, you make everybody acting unnaturally and wrong, and me most
unhappy.
I knew how it
would be.
Had you not been really
amiable, you would have hated me for it; but in spite of the pains you
took to disguise yourself, your feelings were always noble and just; and
in your heart, you thoroughly despised the persons who so assiduously
courted you.
"He is certainly a good brother," said Elizabeth, as she walked towards
one of the windows.
Mr. Bingley had not been of
age two years, when he was tempted by an accidental recommendation
to look at Netherfield House.
How you must have hated me after _that_ evening?"
"Your
cousin's conduct does not suit my feelings.
They were always moving from place to place in quest of a cheap
situation, and always spending more than they ought.
It is only that he is blessed
with greater sweetness of address, and a stronger desire of generally
pleasing, than any other man."
"Was there no good in your affectionate behaviour to Jane while she was
ill at Netherfield?"
I cannot
catch their tone of conversation, or appear interested in their
concerns, as I often see done."
Jane looked well, and Elizabeth had little opportunity of studying her
spirits, amidst the various engagements which the kindness of her
aunt had reserved for them.
We have not met since the 26th of
November, when we were all dancing together at Netherfield."
In a few minutes
he approached the table where she was sitting with Kitty; and, while
pretending to admire her work said in a whisper, "Go to your father, he
wants you in the library."
Again she read
on; but every line proved more clearly that the affair, which she had
believed it impossible that any contrivance could so represent as to
render Mr. Darcy's conduct in it less than infamous, was capable of a
turn which must make him entirely blameless throughout the whole.
"With great energy; but it is always a subject which makes a lady
energetic."
Elizabeth took leave of
the whole party in the liveliest of spirits.
who would willingly have gone through the world without believing that
so much wickedness existed in the whole race of mankind, as was here
collected in one individual.
She
wrote cheerfully, seemed surrounded with comforts, and mentioned nothing
which she could not praise.
He owed a good deal in town, but his debts of honour were still more
formidable.
The colour which had been driven from her face, returned for half a
minute with an additional glow, and a smile of delight added lustre to
her eyes, as she thought for that space of time that his affection and
wishes must still be unshaken.
Elizabeth had been a good deal disappointed in not finding a letter from
Jane on their first arrival at Lambton; and this disappointment had been
renewed on each of the mornings that had now been spent there; but
on the third her repining was over, and her sister justified, by the
receipt of two letters from her at once, on one of which was marked that
it had been missent elsewhere.
Brother-in-law
of Wickham!
Let me thank you again and again,
in the name of all my family, for that generous compassion which induced
you to take so much trouble, and bear so many mortifications, for the
sake of discovering them."
As he was to begin his journey too early on the morrow to see any of the
family, the ceremony of leave-taking was performed when the ladies moved
for the night; and Mrs. Bennet, with great politeness and cordiality,
said how happy they should be to see him at Longbourn again, whenever
his engagements might allow him to visit them.
No motive can
excuse the unjust and ungenerous part you acted _there_.
She could not imagine what business he could have in town
so soon after his arrival in Hertfordshire; and she began to fear that
he might be always flying about from one place to another, and never
settled at Netherfield as he ought to be.
Lady Catherine seemed resigned.
She tried
to recollect some instance of goodness, some distinguished trait of
integrity or benevolence, that might rescue him from the attacks of
Mr. Darcy; or at least, by the predominance of virtue, atone for those
casual errors under which she would endeavour to class what Mr. Darcy
had described as the idleness and vice of many years' continuance.
It cannot last long.
I guessed as much."
The subjection in which his father had brought him up had
given him originally great humility of manner; but it was now a
good deal counteracted by the self-conceit of a weak head, living in
retirement, and the consequential feelings of early and unexpected
prosperity.
"Perhaps you mean what I overheard between him and Mr. Robinson; did not
I mention it to you?
It is too long ago.
If there is
no other objection to my marrying your nephew, I shall certainly not
be kept from it by knowing that his mother and aunt wished him to
marry Miss de Bourgh.
I, who have valued myself on my abilities!
"This is not to be borne.
Mrs. Collins,
seeing that she was really unwell, did not press her to go and as much
as possible prevented her husband from pressing her; but Mr. Collins
could not conceal his apprehension of Lady Catherine's being rather
displeased by her staying at home.
"La!"
I often
tell young ladies that no excellence in music is to be acquired without
constant practice.
Miss Bingley was very deeply mortified by Darcy's marriage; but as she
thought it advisable to retain the right of visiting at Pemberley, she
dropt all her resentment; was fonder than ever of Georgiana, almost as
attentive to Darcy as heretofore, and paid off every arrear of civility
to Elizabeth.
His character was to speak for itself.
Those were your words.
Mary," said she, "I wish you had gone with us, for we had such fun!
"If I can but see one of my daughters happily settled at Netherfield,"
said Mrs. Bennet to her husband, "and all the others equally well
married, I shall have nothing to wish for."
But, Lizzy, you
look as if you did not enjoy it.
"Perhaps it would have been better," replied her sister.
Perhaps he thought her too young.
who would willingly have gone through the world without believing that
so much wickedness existed in the whole race of mankind, as was here
collected in one individual.
But amidst your concern
for the defects of your nearest relations, and your displeasure at this
representation of them, let it give you consolation to consider that, to
have conducted yourselves so as to avoid any share of the like censure,
is praise no less generally bestowed on you and your elder sister, than
it is honourable to the sense and disposition of both.
After
lamenting it, however, at some length, she had the consolation that Mr.
Bingley would be soon down again and soon dining at Longbourn, and the
conclusion of all was the comfortable declaration, that though he had
been invited only to a family dinner, she would take care to have two
full courses.
My avowed one, or what I avowed to
myself, was to see whether your sister were still partial to Bingley,
and if she were, to make the confession to him which I have since made."
Mrs. Jenkinson was chiefly employed in watching how little
Miss de Bourgh ate, pressing her to try some other dish, and fearing
she was indisposed.
"Let me write for you," said Jane, "if you dislike the trouble
yourself."
I knew nothing at all of Lady Catherine's
connections.
Will you allow
me, or do I ask too much, to introduce my sister to your acquaintance
during your stay at Lambton?"
Elizabeth quietly answered "Undoubtedly;" and after an awkward pause,
they returned to the rest of the family.
The Bennets were engaged to dine with the Lucases and again during the
chief of the day was Miss Lucas so kind as to listen to Mr. Collins.
repeated Mr. Bennet.
"As much as I ever wish to be," cried Elizabeth very warmly.
The housekeeper
at Netherfield had received orders to prepare for the arrival of her
master, who was coming down in a day or two, to shoot there for several
weeks.
They were ignorant, idle, and vain.
Bingley was endeared to Darcy by the
easiness, openness, and ductility of his temper, though no disposition
could offer a greater contrast to his own, and though with his own he
never appeared dissatisfied.
I _will_ leave him to himself."
The particulars I reserve till we meet; it is enough
to know they are discovered.
I never saw such a long chin in my life.
"Oh!
"But upon my honour, I do _not_.
In what imaginary act of friendship can you here defend yourself?
"Yes--but as it happens, they are all of them very clever."
With such kinds of histories of their parties and good jokes, did
Lydia, assisted by Kitty's hints and additions, endeavour to amuse her
companions all the way to Longbourn.
Lydia was
occasionally a visitor there, when her husband was gone to enjoy himself
in London or Bath; and with the Bingleys they both of them frequently
staid so long, that even Bingley's good humour was overcome, and he
proceeded so far as to talk of giving them a hint to be gone.
Have you had any
flirting?
We have heard nothing from town."
And there is something of dignity in his countenance that would
not give one an unfavourable idea of his heart.
"That is the most unforgiving speech," said Elizabeth, "that I ever
heard you utter.
The vicious propensities--the want of principle, which he was
careful to guard from the knowledge of his best friend, could not escape
the observation of a young man of nearly the same age with himself,
and who had opportunities of seeing him in unguarded moments, which Mr.
Darcy could not have.
Mr. Darcy was eyeing him
with unrestrained wonder, and when at last Mr. Collins allowed him time
to speak, replied with an air of distant civility.
After discharging
his conscience on that head, he proceeded to inform them, with many
rapturous expressions, of his happiness in having obtained the affection
of their amiable neighbour, Miss Lucas, and then explained that it was
merely with the view of enjoying her society that he had been so ready
to close with their kind wish of seeing him again at Longbourn, whither
he hoped to be able to return on Monday fortnight; for Lady Catherine,
he added, so heartily approved his marriage, that she wished it to take
place as soon as possible, which he trusted would be an unanswerable
argument with his amiable Charlotte to name an early day for making him
the happiest of men.
"I knew," said he, "that what I wrote must give you pain, but it was
necessary.
Kitty simpered and smiled, and hoped
her turn was coming soon.
You have widely mistaken my character, if
you think I can be worked on by such persuasions as these.
Do let the portraits of your uncle and aunt Phillips be placed
in the gallery at Pemberley.
Are you much acquainted with Mr.
I would
rather be paid the compliment of being believed sincere.
But the person who advanced was now
near enough to see her, and stepping forward with eagerness, pronounced
her name.
Charlotte hardly had time to answer, before they were joined by Kitty,
who came to tell the same news; and no sooner had they entered the
breakfast-room, where Mrs. Bennet was alone, than she likewise began on
the subject, calling on Miss Lucas for her compassion, and entreating
her to persuade her friend Lizzy to comply with the wishes of all her
family.
At our time of life it is not so
pleasant, I can tell you, to be making new acquaintances every day; but
for your sakes, we would do anything.
Come be quick, be quick!
do not repeat what I then said.
Miss Bingley said something of his never returning to Netherfield
again, of giving up the house, but not with any certainty.
Darcy, as well as Elizabeth, really loved them; and they were both ever
sensible of the warmest gratitude towards the persons who, by bringing
her into Derbyshire, had been the means of uniting them.






They were not the only objects of Mr. Collins's admiration.
My child, let me not have the grief of seeing
_you_ unable to respect your partner in life.
She was not near enough to hear any of their discourse, but
she could see how seldom they spoke to each other, and how formal and
cold was their manner whenever they did.
In the hall they
parted.
She
soon learnt that they were indebted for their present good understanding
to the efforts of his aunt, who did call on him in her return through
London, and there relate her journey to Longbourn, its motive, and the
substance of her conversation with Elizabeth; dwelling emphatically on
every expression of the latter which, in her ladyship's apprehension,
peculiarly denoted her perverseness and assurance; in the belief that
such a relation must assist her endeavours to obtain that promise
from her nephew which she had refused to give.
Her sister, however, assured her of her being perfectly well; and their
conversation, which had been passing while Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner were
engaged with their children, was now put an end to by the approach
of the whole party.
What a good joke
it will be!
"That is exactly the question which I expected you to ask.
For what do we
live, but to make sport for our neighbours, and laugh at them in our
turn?"
This unfortunate affair will, I
fear, prevent my sister's having the pleasure of seeing you at Pemberley
to-day."
I am going to-morrow
where I shall find a man who has not one agreeable quality, who has
neither manner nor sense to recommend him.
I knew enough of your disposition to be certain that,
had you been absolutely, irrevocably decided against me, you would have
acknowledged it to Lady Catherine, frankly and openly."
Mr. Bennet protested against any
description of finery.
Mr.
Bingley's defense of his friend was a very able one, I dare say; but
since he is unacquainted with several parts of the story, and has learnt
the rest from that friend himself, I shall venture to still think of
both gentlemen as I did before."
She could
think of nothing but of Mr. Wickham, and of what he had told her, all
the way home; but there was not time for her even to mention his name
as they went, for neither Lydia nor Mr. Collins were once silent.
For the truth of everything here related, I can appeal more
particularly to the testimony of Colonel Fitzwilliam, who, from our
near relationship and constant intimacy, and, still more, as one of
the executors of my father's will, has been unavoidably acquainted
with every particular of these transactions.
"You know pretty well, I suppose, what has been done for the young
people.
Let us hope for
better things.
And then
we were so merry all the way home!
We may as well wait, perhaps, till the
circumstance occurs before we discuss the discretion of his behaviour
thereupon.
If I had ever learnt,
I should have been a great proficient.
"'After mentioning the likelihood of this marriage to her ladyship last
night, she immediately, with her usual condescension, expressed what she
felt on the occasion; when it became apparent, that on the score of some
family objections on the part of my cousin, she would never give her
consent to what she termed so disgraceful a match.
Think only of the past as its remembrance gives you
pleasure."
Their engagements at Rosings were as frequent during the last week of
her stay as they had been at first.
If I could but see _you_ as happy!
"Not yet," replied Jane.
said her aunt; "a place, too, with which so many of your
acquaintances are connected.
They could talk of nothing but officers; and
Mr. Bingley's large fortune, the mention of which gave animation
to their mother, was worthless in their eyes when opposed to the
regimentals of an ensign.
Bingley and Jane, however, soon allowed the others
to outstrip them.
She turned from sister to sister, demanding their
congratulations; and when at length they all sat down, looked eagerly
round the room, took notice of some little alteration in it, and
observed, with a laugh, that it was a great while since she had been
there.
One morning, soon after their arrival, as she was sitting with her two
elder sisters, she said to Elizabeth:

"Lizzy, I never gave _you_ an account of my wedding, I believe.
Mr. Darcy's letter to Lady Catherine was in a different style; and still
different from either was what Mr. Bennet sent to Mr. Collins, in reply
to his last.
Nothing was to be done that he did not do himself; though I am sure (and
I do not speak it to be thanked, therefore say nothing about it), your
uncle would most readily have settled the whole.
In this danger
Kitty also is comprehended.
My dear Charles, what do you mean?"
Elizabeth impatiently caught it from his hand.
It is not
of particular, but of general evils, which I am now complaining.
And, besides, no traces of them were to be found on the
Barnet road."
She is a very
headstrong, foolish girl, and does not know her own interest but I will
_make_ her know it."
"But how did he account for
it?"
"And do you impute it to either of those?"
"How strange this is!
"Indeed, I could not.
I should be sorry to think so ill of him,
in the very beginning of our relationship."
With a renewal of tenderness, however, they returned to her room on
leaving the dining-parlour, and sat with her till summoned to coffee.
It is a pity that great ladies
in general are not more like her.
Not that I have much pleasure, indeed, in talking
to anybody.
I hope we
may often meet again."
Choose properly, choose
a gentlewoman for _my_ sake; and for your _own_, let her be an active,
useful sort of person, not brought up high, but able to make a small
income go a good way.
"I am much obliged to your ladyship for your kind invitation," replied
Elizabeth, "but it is not in my power to accept it.
and she coloured at the
idea; but, recovering herself, said in a lively tone, "And pray, what
is the usual price of an earl's younger son?
"Heaven forbid!
Every lingering struggle in his favour grew fainter
and fainter; and in farther justification of Mr. Darcy, she could not
but allow that Mr. Bingley, when questioned by Jane, had long ago
asserted his blamelessness in the affair; that proud and repulsive as
were his manners, she had never, in the whole course of their
acquaintance--an acquaintance which had latterly brought them much
together, and given her a sort of intimacy with his ways--seen anything
that betrayed him to be unprincipled or unjust--anything that spoke him
of irreligious or immoral habits; that among his own connections he was
esteemed and valued--that even Wickham had allowed him merit as a
brother, and that she had often heard him speak so affectionately of his
sister as to prove him capable of _some_ amiable feeling; that had his
actions been what Mr. Wickham represented them, so gross a violation of
everything right could hardly have been concealed from the world; and
that friendship between a person capable of it, and such an amiable man
as Mr. Bingley, was incomprehensible.
He is gone to my father already.
She is the most beautiful creature I ever beheld!
"He is the best landlord, and the best master," said she, "that ever
lived; not like the wild young men nowadays, who think of nothing but
themselves.
However, he wrote some verses
on her, and very pretty they were."
Her eldest daughter endeavoured to give some relief to the violence of
these transports, by leading her thoughts to the obligations which Mr.
Gardiner's behaviour laid them all under.
A day or two passed before Jane had courage to speak of her feelings to
Elizabeth; but at last, on Mrs. Bennet's leaving them together, after a
longer irritation than usual about Netherfield and its master, she could
not help saying:

"Oh, that my dear mother had more command over herself!
"But surely," said she, "I may enter his county with impunity,
and rob it of a few petrified spars without his perceiving me."
Her mother would
talk of her views in the same intelligible tone.
He bore with philosophy the conviction that
Elizabeth must now become acquainted with whatever of his ingratitude
and falsehood had before been unknown to her; and in spite of every
thing, was not wholly without hope that Darcy might yet be prevailed on
to make his fortune.
"Would you believe it, Lizzy, that when he went to town last November,
he really loved me, and nothing but a persuasion of _my_ being
indifferent would have prevented his coming down again!"
She
heard the carriage drive away as she proceeded up stairs.
I could not have parted with
you, my Lizzy, to anyone less worthy."
She was then but fifteen, which must be her
excuse; and after stating her imprudence, I am happy to add, that I owed
the knowledge of it to herself.
It was not often that she could turn her eyes on Mr. Darcy himself;
but, whenever she did catch a glimpse, she saw an expression of general
complaisance, and in all that he said she heard an accent so removed
from _hauteur_ or disdain of his companions, as convinced her that
the improvement of manners which she had yesterday witnessed however
temporary its existence might prove, had at least outlived one day.
The good news spread quickly through the house, and with proportionate
speed through the neighbourhood.
What an agreeable man Sir
William is, Mr. Bingley, is not he?
A younger son, you know, must be inured to self-denial and
dependence."
I _must_ have employment and society.
Indeed you must go, for it will be impossible for _us_ to
visit him if you do not."
They agreed that Mrs. Bennet should only hear of the departure of the
family, without being alarmed on the score of the gentleman's conduct;
but even this partial communication gave her a great deal of concern,
and she bewailed it as exceedingly unlucky that the ladies should happen
to go away just as they were all getting so intimate together.
Her answer, therefore, was not propitious, at
least not to Elizabeth's wishes, for she was impatient to get home.
He spoke of it as a certain event, of which the time alone could
be undecided.
Nothing less than the complaisance of a courtier could have borne
without anger such treatment; but Sir William's good breeding carried
him through it all; and though he begged leave to be positive as to the
truth of his information, he listened to all their impertinence with the
most forbearing courtesy.
Elizabeth
smiled at the recollection of all that she had heard of its inhabitants.
"You used us abominably ill," answered Mrs. Hurst, "running away without
telling us that you were coming out."
This he considered sufficient encouragement;
and the avowal of all that he felt, and had long felt for her,
immediately followed.
She lost all concern for him in
finding herself thus selected as the object of such idle and frivolous
gallantry; and while she steadily repressed it, could not but feel the
reproof contained in his believing, that however long, and for whatever
cause, his attentions had been withdrawn, her vanity would be gratified,
and her preference secured at any time by their renewal.
I have more than once observed to Lady Catherine, that
her charming daughter seemed born to be a duchess, and that the most
elevated rank, instead of giving her consequence, would be adorned by
her.
Colonel Forster believed that more than a
thousand pounds would be necessary to clear his expenses at Brighton.
Mr.
Bingley's defense of his friend was a very able one, I dare say; but
since he is unacquainted with several parts of the story, and has learnt
the rest from that friend himself, I shall venture to still think of
both gentlemen as I did before."
The tete-a-tete surprised
them.
Lydia laughed, and said:

"Aye, that is just like your formality and discretion.
But we are
none of us consistent, and in his behaviour to me there were stronger
impulses even than pride."
My character has ever been
celebrated for its sincerity and frankness, and in a cause of such
moment as this, I shall certainly not depart from it.
Have you seen any pleasant men?
"If you believed it impossible to be true," said Elizabeth, colouring
with astonishment and disdain, "I wonder you took the trouble of coming
so far.
She felt that she had no business at
Pemberley, and was obliged to assume a disinclination for seeing it.
And, besides, no traces of them were to be found on the
Barnet road."
That she should have walked three miles so early in the day, in such
dirty weather, and by herself, was almost incredible to Mrs. Hurst and
Miss Bingley; and Elizabeth was convinced that they held her in contempt
for it.
Mrs. Bennet could certainly
spare you for another fortnight."
They may be there, though
for the purpose of concealment, for no more exceptional purpose.
On the contrary, every particular
relative to his sister was meant to be kept as much as possible to
myself; and if I endeavour to undeceive people as to the rest of his
conduct, who will believe me?
But,
though this might be imaginary, she could not be deceived as to his
behaviour to Miss Darcy, who had been set up as a rival to Jane.
My faults, according to this
calculation, are heavy indeed!
I was afraid they might not;
and we overtook William Goulding in his curricle, so I was determined he
should know it, and so I let down the side-glass next to him, and took
off my glove, and let my hand just rest upon the window frame, so that
he might see the ring, and then I bowed and smiled like anything."
While settling this point, she was suddenly roused by the sound of the
door-bell, and her spirits were a little fluttered by the idea of its
being Colonel Fitzwilliam himself, who had once before called late in
the evening, and might now come to inquire particularly after her.
"Hunsford, near Westerham, Kent, 15th October.
And this consideration leads
me moreover to reflect, with augmented satisfaction, on a certain event
of last November; for had it been otherwise, I must have been involved
in all your sorrow and disgrace.
So much the better.
His arrival was soon known at the Parsonage; for Mr. Collins was walking
the whole morning within view of the lodges opening into Hunsford Lane,
in order to have the earliest assurance of it, and after making his
bow as the carriage turned into the Park, hurried home with the great
intelligence.
Well, and so
just as the carriage came to the door, my uncle was called away upon
business to that horrid man Mr. Stone.
A short dialogue on the subject of the country ensued, on either side
calm and concise--and soon put an end to by the entrance of Charlotte
and her sister, just returned from her walk.
Your sweetness
and disinterestedness are really angelic; I do not know what to say
to you.
"We have not determined how far it shall carry us," said Mrs. Gardiner,
"but, perhaps, to the Lakes."
But are you pleased,
Jane?
He only meant that there was not
such a variety of people to be met with in the country as in the town,
which you must acknowledge to be true."
Their other aunt also
visited them frequently, and always, as she said, with the design of
cheering and heartening them up--though, as she never came without
reporting some fresh instance of Wickham's extravagance or irregularity,
she seldom went away without leaving them more dispirited than she found
them.
He placed himself by her.
"It must not be thought of.
I cannot find
out that I hate her at all, or that I am in the least unwilling to
think her a very good sort of girl.
But whether she
were violently set against the match, or violently delighted with it, it
was certain that her manner would be equally ill adapted to do credit
to her sense; and she could no more bear that Mr. Darcy should hear
the first raptures of her joy, than the first vehemence of her
disapprobation.
Mr. Collins had a compliment, and an allusion to throw in here, which
were kindly smiled on by the mother and daughter.
Bromley, of course.
We are persuaded that he has pledged himself to
assist Mr. Wickham with money."
"I do not believe Mrs. Long will do any such thing.
The first mentioned was,
that, regardless of the sentiments of either, I had detached Mr. Bingley
from your sister, and the other, that I had, in defiance of various
claims, in defiance of honour and humanity, ruined the immediate
prosperity and blasted the prospects of Mr. Wickham.
This she would not hear of; but she was not so
unwilling to comply with their brother's proposal; and it was settled
that Mr. Jones should be sent for early in the morning, if Miss Bennet
were not decidedly better.
She seldom listened to
anybody for more than half a minute, and never attended to Mary at all.
She inquired into Charlotte's domestic
concerns familiarly and minutely, gave her a great deal of advice as
to the management of them all; told her how everything ought to be
regulated in so small a family as hers, and instructed her as to the
care of her cows and her poultry.
I roused, and
interested you, because I was so unlike _them_.
To be
sure that _did_ seem as if he admired her--indeed I rather believe he
_did_--I heard something about it--but I hardly know what--something
about Mr.
In Lydia's imagination, a visit to Brighton comprised
every possibility of earthly happiness.
He has children
of his own, and may have more.
"What does Mr. Darcy mean," said she to Charlotte, "by listening to my
conversation with Colonel Forster?"
That the Miss Lucases and the Miss Bennets should meet to talk over
a ball was absolutely necessary; and the morning after the assembly
brought the former to Longbourn to hear and to communicate.
When first he came in, he had spoken to her but little;
but every five minutes seemed to be giving her more of his attention.
What did Colonel
Forster say?
And so, I suppose, they often
talk of having Longbourn when your father is dead.
Lady Lucas began directly to calculate, with more
interest than the matter had ever excited before, how many years longer
Mr. Bennet was likely to live; and Sir William gave it as his decided
opinion, that whenever Mr. Collins should be in possession of the
Longbourn estate, it would be highly expedient that both he and his wife
should make their appearance at St. James's.
Resignation
to inevitable evils is the duty of us all; the peculiar duty of a
young man who has been so fortunate as I have been in early preferment;
and I trust I am resigned.
"You shall have it in a few words.
We both know that he has been profligate in every
sense of the word; that he has neither integrity nor honour; that he is
as false and deceitful as he is insinuating."
Howsoever that may be,
you are grievously to be pitied; in which opinion I am not only joined
by Mrs. Collins, but likewise by Lady Catherine and her daughter, to
whom I have related the affair.
He has not an ill-natured look.
There
is a stubbornness about me that never can bear to be frightened at the
will of others.
"Well, and so we breakfasted at ten as usual; I thought it would never
be over; for, by the bye, you are to understand, that my uncle and aunt
were horrid unpleasant all the time I was with them.
"Remember, Eliza, that he does not know Jane's disposition as you do."
"In the first place," replied Mr. Gardiner, "there is no absolute proof
that they are not gone to Scotland."
Elizabeth made no objection; the door was then allowed to be shut, and
the carriage drove off.
In understanding, Darcy was the superior.
Why, he has four or five thousand a year, and very likely
more."
Sir William stayed only a week at Hunsford, but his visit was long
enough to convince him of his daughter's being most comfortably settled,
and of her possessing such a husband and such a neighbour as were not
often met with.
Everything nourishes what is
strong already.
_You_ wish to think all the
world respectable, and are hurt if I speak ill of anybody.
But at length, by Elizabeth's persuasion,
he was prevailed on to overlook the offence, and seek a reconciliation;
and, after a little further resistance on the part of his aunt, her
resentment gave way, either to her affection for him, or her curiosity
to see how his wife conducted herself; and she condescended to wait
on them at Pemberley, in spite of that pollution which its woods had
received, not merely from the presence of such a mistress, but the
visits of her uncle and aunt from the city.
"Do not give way to useless alarm," added he; "though it is right to be
prepared for the worst, there is no occasion to look on it as certain.
I have
written to Colonel Forster, to inform him of our present arrangements,
and to request that he will satisfy the various creditors of Mr. Wickham
in and near Brighton, with assurances of speedy payment, for which I
have pledged myself.
Your lively talents would place you in the
greatest danger in an unequal marriage.
Won't it, Kitty?"
Their table was superlatively stupid.
Very few days passed in which Mr. Collins did not walk to Rosings, and
not many in which his wife did not think it necessary to go likewise;
and till Elizabeth recollected that there might be other family livings
to be disposed of, she could not understand the sacrifice of so many
hours.
"You persist, then, in supposing his sisters influence him?"
Oh!
They were in fact very fine
ladies; not deficient in good humour when they were pleased, nor in the
power of making themselves agreeable when they chose it, but proud and
conceited.
But however insincere _you_ may
choose to be, you shall not find _me_ so.
Such relief, however, as it was in her power to afford, by the practice
of what might be called economy in her own private expences, she
frequently sent them.
One morning, soon after their arrival, as she was sitting with her two
elder sisters, she said to Elizabeth:

"Lizzy, I never gave _you_ an account of my wedding, I believe.
If there had not been a Netherfield ball to prepare for and talk of, the
younger Miss Bennets would have been in a very pitiable state at this
time, for from the day of the invitation, to the day of the ball, there
was such a succession of rain as prevented their walking to Meryton
once.
When all of the house that was open to general inspection had been seen,
they returned downstairs, and, taking leave of the housekeeper, were
consigned over to the gardener, who met them at the hall-door.
Perhaps he had been civil only because he
felt himself at ease; yet there had been _that_ in his voice which was
not like ease.
This is the last time I shall ever
remember it myself."
Before they were separated by the conclusion of the play, she had the
unexpected happiness of an invitation to accompany her uncle and aunt in
a tour of pleasure which they proposed taking in the summer.
Elizabeth did not quit her room for a moment; nor were
the other ladies often absent; the gentlemen being out, they had, in
fact, nothing to do elsewhere.
Mrs. Gardiner about this time reminded Elizabeth of her promise
concerning that gentleman, and required information; and Elizabeth
had such to send as might rather give contentment to her aunt than to
herself.
Not a syllable was uttered by either; and
Elizabeth was on the point of going away again, when Bingley, who as
well as the other had sat down, suddenly rose, and whispering a few
words to her sister, ran out of the room.
There was neither in figure nor face any
likeness between the ladies.
'Ah!
"I must think your language too strong in speaking of both," replied
Jane; "and I hope you will be convinced of it by seeing them happy
together.
Had it been your uncle's doing, I must and _would_ have
paid him; but these violent young lovers carry every thing their own
way.
She found it difficult to obtain even a word from
her beyond a monosyllable.
They entered the woods, and bidding adieu to the river for a while,
ascended some of the higher grounds; when, in spots where the opening of
the trees gave the eye power to wander, were many charming views of the
valley, the opposite hills, with the long range of woods overspreading
many, and occasionally part of the stream.
He
drew a chair near her.
For, though your
accusations were ill-founded, formed on mistaken premises, my
behaviour to you at the time had merited the severest reproof.
My
father, however, is partial to Mr. Wickham.
It will then be publicly
seen that, on both sides, we meet only as common and indifferent
acquaintance."
"I dare say she will; she has got over the most trying age."
"That you were gone into the army, and she was afraid had--not turned
out well.
She was received, however, very politely by them; and in their
brother's manners there was something better than politeness; there
was good humour and kindness.
Were the whole arrangement complete, my disappointment would be certain.
"Shall we ask your cousin the reason of this?"
Till I was in Kent, and saw
so much both of Mr. Darcy and his relation Colonel Fitzwilliam, I was
ignorant of the truth myself.
It was the second week in May, in which the three young ladies set out
together from Gracechurch Street for the town of ----, in Hertfordshire;
and, as they drew near the appointed inn where Mr. Bennet's carriage
was to meet them, they quickly perceived, in token of the coachman's
punctuality, both Kitty and Lydia looking out of a dining-room up stairs.
"No, indeed, I did not.
But she is too much like her brother--very, very
proud.
And poor Mr. Darcy!
Sometimes she could fancy that he talked less than on
former occasions, and once or twice pleased herself with the notion
that, as he looked at her, he was trying to trace a resemblance.
"And did Colonel Forster appear to think well of Wickham himself?
Mary, though pretending not to hear, was somewhat disconcerted; and
Elizabeth, sorry for her, and sorry for her father's speech, was afraid
her anxiety had done no good.
But, perhaps, Mr. Bingley did
not take the house so much for the convenience of the neighbourhood as
for his own, and we must expect him to keep it or quit it on the same
principle."
You are very ill."

"No, I thank you," she replied, endeavouring to recover herself.
"I suspected as much," replied Elizabeth.
"FITZWILLIAM DARCY"






If Elizabeth, when Mr. Darcy gave her the letter, did not expect it to
contain a renewal of his offers, she had formed no expectation at all of
its contents.
Bingley?"
"Well, Lizzy," continued her mother, soon afterwards, "and so the
Collinses live very comfortable, do they?
In a few minutes, Mrs.
Bennet half-opened the door and called out:

"Lizzy, my dear, I want to speak with you."
shocking!"
"I should not be surprised," said Darcy, "if he were to give it up as
soon as any eligible purchase offers."
"If it is designedly done, they cannot be justified; but I have no idea
of there being so much design in the world as some persons imagine."
As soon as I get to town I shall go to my brother, and make
him come home with me to Gracechurch Street; and then we may consult
together as to what is to be done."
The contents of this letter threw Elizabeth into a flutter of spirits,
in which it was difficult to determine whether pleasure or pain bore the
greatest share.
To my fancy, it is only because he does not rattle away
like other young men."
My friend has an excellent understanding--though
I am not certain that I consider her marrying Mr. Collins as the
wisest thing she ever did.
"I do not think we were speaking at all.
Their visit did not continue long after the question and answer above
mentioned; and while Mr. Darcy was attending them to their carriage Miss
Bingley was venting her feelings in criticisms on Elizabeth's person,
behaviour, and dress.
This she would not hear of; but she was not so
unwilling to comply with their brother's proposal; and it was settled
that Mr. Jones should be sent for early in the morning, if Miss Bennet
were not decidedly better.
The boy protested that she should not; she continued to declare that she
would, and the argument ended only with the visit.
"I would by no means suspend any pleasure of yours," he coldly replied.
A report of a most
alarming nature reached me two days ago.
"How hard it is in some cases to be believed!"
"And what arts did he use to separate them?"
"And _your_ defect is to hate everybody."
My dear aunt, how could you think of it?
And, above all, keep Mr. Bennet from fighting.
"Obstinate, headstrong girl!
Nothing less than the complaisance of a courtier could have borne
without anger such treatment; but Sir William's good breeding carried
him through it all; and though he begged leave to be positive as to the
truth of his information, he listened to all their impertinence with the
most forbearing courtesy.
But here she did injustice to the fire and independence of his
character, for it led him to escape out of Longbourn House the next
morning with admirable slyness, and hasten to Lucas Lodge to throw
himself at her feet.
My mind was more
agreeably engaged.
From the entrance-hall, of which Mr. Collins pointed out, with a
rapturous air, the fine proportion and the finished ornaments, they
followed the servants through an ante-chamber, to the room where Lady
Catherine, her daughter, and Mrs. Jenkinson were sitting.
Adieu!
Think only of the past as its remembrance gives you
pleasure."
He owns it
himself without disguise."
I was sure you loved your girls too well to
neglect such an acquaintance.
They were off Saturday night about
twelve, as is conjectured, but were not missed till yesterday morning at
eight.
"I expected at least that the pigs
were got into the garden, and here is nothing but Lady Catherine and her
daughter."
When at length they arose to take leave, Mrs. Bennet was most pressingly
civil in her hope of seeing the whole family soon at Longbourn, and
addressed herself especially to Mr. Bingley, to assure him how happy he
would make them by eating a family dinner with them at any time, without
the ceremony of a formal invitation.
The
venison was roasted to a turn--and everybody said they never saw so
fat a haunch.
Perhaps he thought her too young.
In consequence of an agreement between the sisters, Elizabeth wrote the
next morning to their mother, to beg that the carriage might be sent for
them in the course of the day.
It was
necessary to make this circumstance a matter of pleasure, because on
such occasions it is the etiquette; but no one was less likely than Mrs.
Bennet to find comfort in staying home at any period of her life.
"I am afraid you do not like your pen.
"No, indeed, I do not wish to avoid the walk.
I don't know.
"What should not you mind?"
"Haye Park might do," said she, "if the Gouldings could quit it--or the
great house at Stoke, if the drawing-room were larger; but Ashworth is
too far off!
"How so?
_He_ shall be
mercenary, and _she_ shall be foolish."
Elizabeth soon saw that she was herself closely watched by Miss Bingley,
and that she could not speak a word, especially to Miss Darcy, without
calling her attention.
The arrival of letters
was the grand object of every morning's impatience.
The next variation which their visit afforded was produced by the
entrance of servants with cold meat, cake, and a variety of all the
finest fruits in season; but this did not take place till after many
a significant look and smile from Mrs. Annesley to Miss Darcy had been
given, to remind her of her post.
"Yes, yes, they must marry.
At length however, the question
was asked by her uncle; and she turned away with alarm, while Mrs.
Reynolds replied that he was, adding, "But we expect him to-morrow, with
a large party of friends."
He seemed scarcely to hear her, and was walking
up and down the room in earnest meditation, his brow contracted, his air
gloomy.
"I hope not so.
He was received by Mrs.
Bennet with a degree of civility which made her two daughters ashamed,
especially when contrasted with the cold and ceremonious politeness of
her curtsey and address to his friend.
"You may depend on it," replied the other, "for Mrs. Nicholls was in
Meryton last night; I saw her passing by, and went out myself on purpose
to know the truth of it; and she told me that it was certain true.
Heaven and earth!--of what are
you thinking?
Mr. Gardiner was a sensible, gentlemanlike man, greatly
superior to his sister, as well by nature as education.
Is it true?"
But she would not
allow herself to stay with her sister, or say half that remained to be
said for the present.
She is quite a little
creature.
Mr. Bennet's emotions were much more tranquil on the occasion, and such
as he did experience he pronounced to be of a most agreeable sort; for
it gratified him, he said, to discover that Charlotte Lucas, whom he had
been used to think tolerably sensible, was as foolish as his wife, and
more foolish than his daughter!
"Yes, and her petticoat; I hope you saw her petticoat, six inches deep
in mud, I am absolutely certain; and the gown which had been let down to
hide it not doing its office."
It was a large, well proportioned
room, handsomely fitted up.
Miss Bingley was not so entirely satisfied with this reply as to
continue the subject.
repeated Elizabeth, in utter amazement.
She talked on, therefore, without interruption from any of
them, till they were joined by Mr. Collins, who entered the room with
an air more stately than usual, and on perceiving whom, she said to
the girls, "Now, I do insist upon it, that you, all of you, hold
your tongues, and let me and Mr. Collins have a little conversation
together."
Had they fixed on any other man
it would have been nothing; but _his_ perfect indifference, and _your_
pointed dislike, make it so delightfully absurd!
What do you think has happened this morning?
But to be candid without ostentation or design--to take the
good of everybody's character and make it still better, and say nothing
of the bad--belongs to you alone.
He, who had always inspired in herself a respect
which almost overcame her affection, she now saw the object of open
pleasantry.
"Very much."
"When they all removed to Brighton, therefore, you had no reason, I
suppose, to believe them fond of each other?"
"Yes, indeed, his friends may well rejoice in his having met with one
of the very few sensible women who would have accepted him, or have made
him happy if they had.
For the last week they had seen very little
of Lady Catherine or her daughter.
After breakfast, the girls walked to Meryton to inquire if Mr. Wickham
were returned, and to lament over his absence from the Netherfield ball.
But I ought to beg his pardon, for I have no right to suppose that
Bingley was the person meant.
He expressed no regret for what he had done which satisfied
her; his style was not penitent, but haughty.
The prospect of such
delights was very cheering, and they parted in mutual good spirits.
I shall not go away till you have given me the
assurance I require."
"You can now have nothing further to say," she resentfully answered.
But you do not know _all_.
accompanied by a violent yawn.
And his sisters are charming women.
Hurst?"
Mr. Bennet accepted the challenge, observing that he acted
very wisely in leaving the girls to their own trifling amusements.
Is this to be endured!
"But I can assure you," she added, "that Lizzy does not lose much by not
suiting _his_ fancy; for he is a most disagreeable, horrid man, not at
all worth pleasing.
For
my part, Mr. Bingley, I always keep servants that can do their own work;
_my_ daughters are brought up very differently.
I am going to Gretna Green, and if you cannot guess with who,
I shall think you a simpleton, for there is but one man in the world I
love, and he is an angel.
"It is a rule with me, that a person who can write a long letter with
ease, cannot write ill."

"That will not do for a compliment to Darcy, Caroline," cried her
brother, "because he does _not_ write with ease.
He shall not be in love with me, if I
can prevent it."
repeated Elizabeth, in utter amazement.
When Jane and Elizabeth were alone, the former, who had been cautious in
her praise of Mr. Bingley before, expressed to her sister just how very
much she admired him.
She performed her part
indeed without much graciousness, but Mrs. Bennet was satisfied, and
soon afterwards ordered her carriage.
She accounted for it, however, by supposing that
her last letter to her friend from Longbourn had by some accident been
lost.
"I am not afraid of you," said he, smilingly.
"Beyond a doubt, they _do_ wish him to choose Miss Darcy," replied Jane;
"but this may be from better feelings than you are supposing.
This was
very amiable, but Charlotte's kindness extended farther than Elizabeth
had any conception of; its object was nothing else than to secure her
from any return of Mr. Collins's addresses, by engaging them towards
herself.
Pardon me.
Wickham's affection for Lydia was just what Elizabeth had expected
to find it; not equal to Lydia's for him.
And will you give yourself the trouble of carrying
similar assurances to his creditors in Meryton, of whom I shall subjoin
a list according to his information?
I never in my life saw
anything more elegant than their dresses.
she added, "by far too much.
"I do not know.
"Perhaps we might be deceived."
Put them next to your great-uncle the
judge.
Elizabeth longed to explore its windings; but when they had crossed the
bridge, and perceived their distance from the house, Mrs. Gardiner,
who was not a great walker, could go no farther, and thought only
of returning to the carriage as quickly as possible.
To Kitty, however, it does not seem so wholly unexpected.
I quite detest the man."
His wish of introducing his sister to her was a compliment of
the highest kind.
It is really too great a violation of decency, honour, and
interest, for him to be guilty of.
I will have no reserves from _you_."
"Oh, yes!--that, that is the worst of all.
Some time hence it will be all found out,
and then we may laugh at their stupidity in not knowing it before.
The gentlemen came; and she thought he looked as if he would have
answered her hopes; but, alas!
What
a contrast did it offer to his last address in Rosings Park, when he put
his letter into her hand!
He had before believed her to return his
affection with sincere, if not with equal regard.
He readily agreed to it.
Four weeks passed away, and Jane saw nothing of him.
"I can easily believe it.
You forced me into visiting him last year, and promised, if I
went to see him, he should marry one of my daughters.
Had I been in love, I could
not have been more wretchedly blind!
Mrs. Bennet's eyes sparkled with pleasure, and she was
eagerly calling out, while her daughter read,

"Well, Jane, who is it from?
"My fingers," said Elizabeth, "do not move over this instrument in the
masterly manner which I see so many women's do.
Even Elizabeth began to fear--not that Bingley was indifferent--but that
his sisters would be successful in keeping him away.
"Miss Bingley," said he, "has given me more credit than can be.
He could not speak a word for full ten
minutes.
"And so was I."
His
name had never been voluntarily mentioned before them by her niece; and
the kind of half-expectation which Mrs. Gardiner had formed, of their
being followed by a letter from him, had ended in nothing.
"What did you say of me, that I did not deserve?
"What do you think?
It does not follow that a deep, intricate
character is more or less estimable than such a one as yours."
"I am afraid you do not like your pen.
I will only add, God bless you.
Nothing was to be done that he did not do himself; though I am sure (and
I do not speak it to be thanked, therefore say nothing about it), your
uncle would most readily have settled the whole.
No scheme could have been more agreeable to Elizabeth, and her
acceptance of the invitation was most ready and grateful.
Darcy was fixed in astonishment.
After walking two or three times along that part of the lane, she was
tempted, by the pleasantness of the morning, to stop at the gates and
look into the park.
"There can be no doubt of that.
You both did as much as you could in planning the
marriage.
When they were all in the drawing-room, the questions which Elizabeth
had already asked were of course repeated by the others, and they soon
found that Jane had no intelligence to give.
"May I ask to what these questions tend?"
They were not welcomed home very cordially by their mother.
The promised
letter of thanks from Mr. Collins arrived on Tuesday, addressed to
their father, and written with all the solemnity of gratitude which a
twelvemonth's abode in the family might have prompted.
He was then, he said, on his way to
Longbourn on purpose to inquire after her.
Your character was unfolded in the recital which I received
many months ago from Mr. Wickham.
Bingley looked a little silly at this reflection, and said something of
his concern at having been prevented by business.
He was my godfather, and excessively attached to me.
In no countenance was attentive
curiosity so strongly marked as in Miss Bingley's, in spite of the
smiles which overspread her face whenever she spoke to one of its
objects; for jealousy had not yet made her desperate, and her attentions
to Mr. Darcy were by no means over.
Georgiana's reception of them was very civil, but attended with
all the embarrassment which, though proceeding from shyness and the fear
of doing wrong, would easily give to those who felt themselves inferior
the belief of her being proud and reserved.
"Not so much as I could wish, sir; but I dare say he may spend half his
time here; and Miss Darcy is always down for the summer months."
"Not so hasty, if you please.
"You are rather disposed to call his interference officious?"
The certainty
of meeting him had not been checked by any of those recollections that
might not unreasonably have alarmed her.
I will not tell you what it is.
It will then be publicly
seen that, on both sides, we meet only as common and indifferent
acquaintance."
Everybody said how well
she looked; and Mr. Bingley thought her quite beautiful, and danced with
her twice!
His affection for
her soon sunk into indifference; hers lasted a little longer; and
in spite of her youth and her manners, she retained all the claims to
reputation which her marriage had given her.
As no objection was made to the young people's engagement with their
aunt, and all Mr. Collins's scruples of leaving Mr. and Mrs. Bennet for
a single evening during his visit were most steadily resisted, the coach
conveyed him and his five cousins at a suitable hour to Meryton; and
the girls had the pleasure of hearing, as they entered the drawing-room,
that Mr. Wickham had accepted their uncle's invitation, and was then in
the house.
Mr. Bingley had not been of
age two years, when he was tempted by an accidental recommendation
to look at Netherfield House.
Wickham passed all his youth there, you
know."
They are not married, nor can I find there
was any intention of being so; but if you are willing to perform the
engagements which I have ventured to make on your side, I hope it will
not be long before they are.
Mrs. Gardiner went away in all the perplexity about Elizabeth and her
Derbyshire friend that had attended her from that part of the world.
"Can you possibly guess, Lizzy, who is meant by this?"
That _she_ could be
in any danger from the deception never entered my head.
My total
ignorance of the connection must plead my apology."
"I have, sir."
That his anger could be carried to such a point of inconceivable
resentment as to refuse his daughter a privilege without which her
marriage would scarcely seem valid, exceeded all she could believe
possible.
Till I have your disposition, your goodness, I never can have your
happiness.
"You are not going to introduce yourself to Mr.
It
was hardly enough; but it pleased her.
But I pity her, because she must feel that she has been acting
wrong, and because I am very sure that anxiety for her brother is the
cause of it.
And pray what sort of guardians do you make?
"Nay, if you are serious about it, I shall consider the matter is
absolutely settled.
I had not thought so very ill of him.
Her uncle and aunt were all amazement; and the embarrassment
of her manner as she spoke, joined to the circumstance itself, and many
of the circumstances of the preceding day, opened to them a new idea on
the business.
Her ladyship,
with great condescension, arose to receive them; and as Mrs. Collins had
settled it with her husband that the office of introduction should
be hers, it was performed in a proper manner, without any of those
apologies and thanks which he would have thought necessary.
He observed
to her, at a moment when the others were talking together, and in a tone
which had something of real regret, that it "was a very long time since
he had had the pleasure of seeing her;" and, before she could reply,
he added, "It is above eight months.
If you should have no objection to
receive me into your house, I propose myself the satisfaction of waiting
on you and your family, Monday, November 18th, by four o'clock, and
shall probably trespass on your hospitality till the Saturday se'ennight
following, which I can do without any inconvenience, as Lady Catherine
is far from objecting to my occasional absence on a Sunday, provided
that some other clergyman is engaged to do the duty of the day.--I
remain, dear sir, with respectful compliments to your lady and
daughters, your well-wisher and friend,

"WILLIAM COLLINS"

"At four o'clock, therefore, we may expect this peace-making gentleman,"
said Mr. Bennet, as he folded up the letter.
Elizabeth could not but be pleased,
could not but triumph.
It is what everybody says.
He is perfectly amiable.
Mrs. Gardiner's caution to Elizabeth was punctually and kindly given
on the first favourable opportunity of speaking to her alone; after
honestly telling her what she thought, she thus went on:

"You are too sensible a girl, Lizzy, to fall in love merely because
you are warned against it; and, therefore, I am not afraid of speaking
openly.
What can
have induced him to behave so cruelly?"
Her nose
wants character--there is nothing marked in its lines.
Maria thought speaking out of the question, and the
gentlemen did nothing but eat and admire.
"And my aunt Phillips is sure it would do _me_ a great deal of good,"
added Kitty.
My temper I dare not vouch
for.
observed Mrs. Bennet.
But Bingley has great
natural modesty, with a stronger dependence on my judgement than on his
own.
His resentment was in proportion to the distress of
his circumstances--and he was doubtless as violent in his abuse of me
to others as in his reproaches to myself.
"I can comprehend your going on charmingly, when
you had once made a beginning; but what could set you off in the first
place?"
Mr. Collins made his
declaration in form.
"You expect me to account for opinions which you choose to call mine,
but which I have never acknowledged.
His arrival was soon known at the Parsonage; for Mr. Collins was walking
the whole morning within view of the lodges opening into Hunsford Lane,
in order to have the earliest assurance of it, and after making his
bow as the carriage turned into the Park, hurried home with the great
intelligence.
If your abhorrence of _me_
should make _my_ assertions valueless, you cannot be prevented by
the same cause from confiding in my cousin; and that there may be
the possibility of consulting him, I shall endeavour to find some
opportunity of putting this letter in your hands in the course of the
morning.
"If you were to give me forty such men, I never could be so happy as
you.
"He is as fine a fellow," said Mr. Bennet, as soon as they were out of
the house, "as ever I saw.
I can hardly write for laughing.
"It is difficult indeed--it is distressing.
It was necessary to laugh, when she
would rather have cried.
Elizabeth was the least dear to her of all her children; and though the
man and the match were quite good enough for _her_, the worth of each
was eclipsed by Mr. Bingley and Netherfield.
Her aunt assured her that she was, and Elizabeth having thanked her for
the kindness of her hints, they parted; a wonderful instance of advice
being given on such a point, without being resented.
When the gentlemen had joined them, and tea was over, the card-tables
were placed.
I entreat you
not to suppose that I moved this way in order to beg for a partner."
Elizabeth soon heard from her friend; and their
correspondence was as regular and frequent as it had ever been; that
it should be equally unreserved was impossible.
"Your conjecture is totally wrong, I assure you.
She was humbled, she was grieved; she repented, though she
hardly knew of what.
He really
believed, that were it not for the inferiority of her connections, he
should be in some danger.
You know I have.
Reflection must be
reserved for solitary hours; whenever she was alone, she gave way to it
as the greatest relief; and not a day went by without a solitary
walk, in which she might indulge in all the delight of unpleasant
recollections.
Elizabeth was pleased; though when
she asked herself the reason, she had very little to say in reply.
for I ought not to have mentioned the
subject.
"And how impossible in others!"
"The letter, perhaps, began in bitterness, but it did not end so.
Mr.
Phillips visited them all, and this opened to his nieces a store of
felicity unknown before.
"I have never heard him say so; but it is probable that he may spend
very little of his time there in the future.
Darcy was fixed in astonishment.
It was gratitude; gratitude, not merely for having once loved her,
but for loving her still well enough to forgive all the petulance and
acrimony of her manner in rejecting him, and all the unjust accusations
accompanying her rejection.
Robinson."
But why Mr. Darcy came so often to the Parsonage, it was more difficult
to understand.
Their fortune on
both sides is splendid.
Its completion depended on others.
The Gardiners stayed only one night at Longbourn, and set off the
next morning with Elizabeth in pursuit of novelty and amusement.
"I wish it may."
The whole family, in short,
were properly overjoyed on the occasion.
There is nothing extravagant in _their_
housekeeping, I dare say."
I should have considered it as part of my duty,
and the exertion would soon have been nothing.
Wickham of
course wanted more than he could get; but at length was reduced to be
reasonable.
Your daughter
Elizabeth, it is presumed, will not long bear the name of Bennet, after
her elder sister has resigned it, and the chosen partner of her fate may
be reasonably looked up to as one of the most illustrious personages in
this land.'
This information made Elizabeth smile, as she thought of poor Miss
Bingley.
Mrs. Hurst and her sister allowed it to be so--but still they admired
her and liked her, and pronounced her to be a sweet girl, and one
whom they would not object to know more of.
The introduction, however, was immediately made; and as she named their
relationship to herself, she stole a sly look at him, to see how he bore
it, and was not without the expectation of his decamping as fast as he
could from such disgraceful companions.
I always had a value for him.
But, however this remonstrance
might have staggered or delayed his determination, I do not suppose
that it would ultimately have prevented the marriage, had it not been
seconded by the assurance that I hesitated not in giving, of your
sister's indifference.
But, Lizzy, you
look as if you did not enjoy it.
But they were entirely ignorant of what had passed; and their raptures
continued, with little intermission, to the very day of Lydia's leaving
home.
Elizabeth laughed heartily at this picture of herself, and said to
Colonel Fitzwilliam, "Your cousin will give you a very pretty notion of
me, and teach you not to believe a word I say.
"Good gracious!
Lady Catherine observed, after dinner, that Miss Bennet seemed out of
spirits, and immediately accounting for it by herself, by supposing that
she did not like to go home again so soon, she added:

"But if that is the case, you must write to your mother and beg that
you may stay a little longer.
I am most seriously displeased."
After sitting
for a moment in silence, she said very stiffly to Elizabeth,

"I hope you are well, Miss Bennet.
She expected every
moment that some of the gentlemen would enter the room.
As the weather was fine, they had a pleasant walk of about half a
mile across the park.
One day's delay, she observed,
would be of small importance; and her mother was too happy to be quite
so obstinate as usual.
I do not know who is
good enough for him."
But we must stem the tide of malice, and pour into the wounded bosoms of
each other the balm of sisterly consolation."
Mrs. Bennet's eyes sparkled.
His
ease and cheerfulness rendered him a most agreeable addition to their
evening party; and he bore with the ill-judged officiousness of the
mother, and heard all her silly remarks with a forbearance and command
of countenance particularly grateful to the daughter.
But
no such recollection befriended her.
He joined them on their entering the town, and attended them to their
aunt's where his regret and vexation, and the concern of everybody, was
well talked over.
In
terms of grateful acknowledgment for the kindness of his brother,
though expressed most concisely, he then delivered on paper his perfect
approbation of all that was done, and his willingness to fulfil the
engagements that had been made for him.
Poor Kitty has
anger for having concealed their attachment; but as it was a matter of
confidence, one cannot wonder.
"It must be very agreeable for her to be settled within so easy a
distance of her own family and friends."
"Oh!
But if I go on, I shall displease you by saying what
I think of persons you esteem.
Bingley, she had likewise seen for an instant, and in that short period
saw him looking both pleased and embarrassed.
Your
reproof, so well applied, I shall never forget: 'had you behaved in a
more gentlemanlike manner.'
I have
not the smallest hope.
"The indirect boast; for you are really proud of your defects in
writing, because you consider them as proceeding from a rapidity of
thought and carelessness of execution, which, if not estimable, you
think at least highly interesting.
said Elizabeth to herself.
I did not believe
her to be indifferent because I wished it; I believed it on impartial
conviction, as truly as I wished it in reason.
The expression
of his face changed gradually from indignant contempt to a composed and
steady gravity.
He then shut the door, and, coming up to her, claimed the good wishes
and affection of a sister.
"My dear Lizzy, you cannot think me so weak, as to be in danger now?"
In society so superior to what she had generally
known, her improvement was great.
Jane looked a little
paler than usual, but more sedate than Elizabeth had expected.
Both changed colour, one looked white, the other red.
Mr. Bennet had very often wished before this period of his life that,
instead of spending his whole income, he had laid by an annual sum for
the better provision of his children, and of his wife, if she survived
him.
The rest of his letter is only about his dear Charlotte's
situation, and his expectation of a young olive-branch.
I have not a doubt of your
doing very well together.
Kitty was the
only one who shed tears; but she did weep from vexation and envy.
how he must have felt it!"
I told my sister Phillips so the other day.
to Miss Lydia Bennet,' without there being a
syllable said of her father, or the place where she lived, or anything.
Though her manner
varied, however, her determination never did.
He did every
thing best in the world; and she was sure he would kill more birds on
the first of September, than any body else in the country.
Her
home and her housekeeping, her parish and her poultry, and all their
dependent concerns, had not yet lost their charms.
The hill, crowned with wood, which
they had descended, receiving increased abruptness from the distance,
was a beautiful object.
With proper civilities the ladies then withdrew; all of them equally
surprised that he meditated a quick return.
Mrs. Bennet could not give her consent or
speak her approbation in terms warm enough to satisfy her feelings,
though she talked to Bingley of nothing else for half an hour; and when
Mr. Bennet joined them at supper, his voice and manner plainly showed
how really happy he was.
"But if he returns no more this winter, my choice will never be
required.
His behaviour to us has,
in every respect, been as pleasing as when we were in Derbyshire.
Darcy made no answer.
She paused, and saw with no slight indignation that he was listening
with an air which proved him wholly unmoved by any feeling of remorse.
"Beyond a doubt, they _do_ wish him to choose Miss Darcy," replied Jane;
"but this may be from better feelings than you are supposing.
"I dare say she will; she has got over the most trying age."
It is
impossible.
"Now I have got some news for you," said Lydia, as they sat down at
table.
I am not ashamed of having been
mistaken--or, at least, it is light, it is nothing in comparison of what
I should feel in thinking ill of him or his sisters.
"I do not blame Jane," she continued, "for Jane would have got Mr.
Bingley if she could.
As they passed through the
hall, Lady Catherine opened the doors into the dining-parlour and
drawing-room, and pronouncing them, after a short survey, to be decent
looking rooms, walked on.
"You persist, then, in supposing his sisters influence him?"
I often tell my other girls they are
nothing to _her_.
I never meant to deceive you, but my spirits might often lead me
wrong.
When Mr. Collins could be
forgotten, there was really an air of great comfort throughout, and by
Charlotte's evident enjoyment of it, Elizabeth supposed he must be often
forgotten.
But it has been the study
of my life to avoid those weaknesses which often expose a strong
understanding to ridicule."
Their father then went on to the
library to write, and the girls walked into the breakfast-room.
"It has been a very agreeable day," said Miss Bennet to Elizabeth.
"Did not you?
I will not encourage the
impudence of either, by receiving them at Longbourn."
As the day of his arrival drew near,--

"I begin to be sorry that he comes at all," said Jane to her sister.
This part of his intelligence, though unheard by Lydia, was caught by
Elizabeth, and, as it assured her that Darcy was not less answerable for
Wickham's absence than if her first surmise had been just, every
feeling of displeasure against the former was so sharpened by immediate
disappointment, that she could hardly reply with tolerable civility to
the polite inquiries which he directly afterwards approached to make.
He has more to give.
He
promises fairly; and I hope among different people, where they may each
have a character to preserve, they will both be more prudent.
"If you believed it impossible to be true," said Elizabeth, colouring
with astonishment and disdain, "I wonder you took the trouble of coming
so far.
He had some intention, he added, of studying
law, and I must be aware that the interest of one thousand pounds would
be a very insufficient support therein.
She asked her, at different times, how many sisters
she had, whether they were older or younger than herself, whether any of
them were likely to be married, whether they were handsome, where they
had been educated, what carriage her father kept, and what had been
her mother's maiden name?
Mrs. Bennet, to whose apartment they all repaired, after a few minutes'
conversation together, received them exactly as might be expected; with
tears and lamentations of regret, invectives against the villainous
conduct of Wickham, and complaints of her own sufferings and ill-usage;
blaming everybody but the person to whose ill-judging indulgence the
errors of her daughter must principally be owing.
Consider Mr. Collins's respectability, and
Charlotte's steady, prudent character.
If my vanity had taken
a musical turn, you would have been invaluable; but as it is, I would
really rather not sit down before those who must be in the habit of
hearing the very best performers."
She has two nieces
of her own.
What are you telling Miss Bennet?
Mr. Jones says we must not think of moving her.
"And _that_ I suppose is one of your sisters."
cried Lydia.
"Are you consulting your own feelings in the present case, or do you
imagine that you are gratifying mine?"
Bingley expressed great pleasure in the certainty of seeing Elizabeth
again, having still a great deal to say to her, and many inquiries to
make after all their Hertfordshire friends.
She was sure they should be married some time or
other, and it did not much signify when.
As long as she stays there, it is
all very well.
"I am
sorry it went off.
"But what is to be done about Pemberley?"
You wanted me, I know, to say 'Yes,'
that you might have the pleasure of despising my taste; but I always
delight in overthrowing those kind of schemes, and cheating a person of
their premeditated contempt.
She tried
to recollect some instance of goodness, some distinguished trait of
integrity or benevolence, that might rescue him from the attacks of
Mr. Darcy; or at least, by the predominance of virtue, atone for those
casual errors under which she would endeavour to class what Mr. Darcy
had described as the idleness and vice of many years' continuance.
* * * * *

They did not see the gentlemen again till Tuesday; and Mrs. Bennet, in
the meanwhile, was giving way to all the happy schemes, which the good
humour and common politeness of Bingley, in half an hour's visit, had
revived.
But, if I were you, I would stand by the nephew.
I am only resolved to act in that manner,
which will, in my own opinion, constitute my happiness, without
reference to _you_, or to any person so wholly unconnected with me."
My mother means well;
but she does not know, no one can know, how much I suffer from what she
says.
Jane ran to her uncle and aunt, and welcomed and
thanked them both, with alternate smiles and tears.
"I see your design, Bingley," said his friend.
Elizabeth read on:

"I have seen them both.
"Indeed you are mistaken.
"Perhaps it will be as well if you discourage his coming here so very
often.
"You are mistaken.
What
are young men to rocks and mountains?
That he had been concerned in the measures
taken to separate Bingley and Jane she had never doubted; but she had
always attributed to Miss Bingley the principal design and arrangement
of them.
She danced next with an officer, and had the refreshment of talking of
Wickham, and of hearing that he was universally liked.
"I see what you are feeling," replied Charlotte.
She was immediately told that the two gentlemen from Rosings had each
called during her absence; Mr. Darcy, only for a few minutes, to take
leave--but that Colonel Fitzwilliam had been sitting with them at least
an hour, hoping for her return, and almost resolving to walk after her
till she could be found.
Things are settled so
oddly."
Elizabeth was exceedingly pleased with this proposal, and felt persuaded
of her sister's ready acquiescence.
"Do you not think it would be a proper compliment to the place?"
When Mr. Bennet arrived, he had all the appearance of his usual
philosophic composure.
The morrow produced no abatement of Mrs. Bennet's ill-humour or ill
health.
But so they always are.
But it
ought to be done, and if you will give me a sheet of paper, it shall be
done directly."
Observing his second daughter employed in trimming a hat, he
suddenly addressed her with:

"I hope Mr. Bingley will like it, Lizzy."
Yet in spite of all these temptations, let me warn my cousin
Elizabeth, and yourself, of what evils you may incur by a precipitate
closure with this gentleman's proposals, which, of course, you will be
inclined to take immediate advantage of.'
He has heartily forgiven me
now."
He is not at all liked in
Hertfordshire.
Jane looked at Elizabeth with surprise and concern.
Have a little
compassion on my nerves.
Mrs. Bennet, we shall have her
at Netherfield at last.'
You may remember
what I told you on that point, when first we talked of it."
You forced me into visiting him last year, and promised, if I
went to see him, he should marry one of my daughters.
repeated Elizabeth, in utter amazement.
"If you believed it impossible to be true," said Elizabeth, colouring
with astonishment and disdain, "I wonder you took the trouble of coming
so far.
"Perhaps that is not possible for anyone.
I do not at all comprehend her reason for
wishing to be intimate with me; but if the same circumstances were to
happen again, I am sure I should be deceived again.
Colonel Fitzwilliam's manners were very much admired at the Parsonage,
and the ladies all felt that he must add considerably to the pleasures
of their engagements at Rosings.
Fixed there by the keenest of all anguish, self-reproach, she could find
no interval of ease or forgetfulness.
To such perseverance in wilful self-deception Elizabeth would make
no reply, and immediately and in silence withdrew; determined, if
he persisted in considering her repeated refusals as flattering
encouragement, to apply to her father, whose negative might be uttered
in such a manner as to be decisive, and whose behaviour at least could
not be mistaken for the affectation and coquetry of an elegant female.
You
must give me leave to judge for myself, and pay me the compliment
of believing what I say.
Scarcely a syllable was
uttered that did not relate to the game, except when Mrs. Jenkinson
expressed her fears of Miss de Bourgh's being too hot or too cold, or
having too much or too little light.
Mrs. Bennet was really in a most pitiable state.
"How very ill Miss Eliza Bennet looks this morning, Mr. Darcy," she
cried; "I never in my life saw anyone so much altered as she is since
the winter.
I hope they will not meet at all.
She listened most
attentively to all that passed between them, and gloried in every
expression, every sentence of her uncle, which marked his intelligence,
his taste, or his good manners.
"With all my heart; I will buy Pemberley itself if Darcy will sell it."
"I should not mind anything at all."
"You are quite right.
It is very unlucky; but as I have actually paid the visit, we
cannot escape the acquaintance now."
It would be such a delicious scheme;
and I dare say would hardly cost anything at all.
Till Elizabeth entered the drawing-room at Netherfield, and looked in
vain for Mr. Wickham among the cluster of red coats there assembled, a
doubt of his being present had never occurred to her.
His coming into the country at all is a most insolent
thing, indeed, and I wonder how he could presume to do it.
He does not
want abilities.
"Yes, there can; for mine is totally different.
"There has
been many a one, I fancy, overcome in the same way.
"_You_ are dancing with the only handsome girl in the room," said Mr.
Darcy, looking at the eldest Miss Bennet.
It must have been a most agreeable surprise to Mr. Bingley to see you
all after him so soon; for, if I recollect right, he went but the day
before.
This is your final resolve!
Mr. Robinson's asking him how he liked our Meryton
assemblies, and whether he did not think there were a great many
pretty women in the room, and _which_ he thought the prettiest?
My reasons for
believing it are briefly these: It does not appear to me that my hand is
unworthy your acceptance, or that the establishment I can offer would
be any other than highly desirable.
Jane was already so much recovered
as to intend leaving her room for a couple of hours that evening.
"If I had been able," said she, "to carry my point in going to Brighton,
with all my family, _this_ would not have happened; but poor dear Lydia
had nobody to take care of her.
Mrs. Bennet was quite
disconcerted.
Let me never see either
one or the other again!"
The boy protested that she should not; she continued to declare that she
would, and the argument ended only with the visit.
As it principally concerns yourself, you ought to know its
contents.
But the misfortune of speaking with bitterness is a most
natural consequence of the prejudices I had been encouraging.
Mr. Collins was also in the same state of angry pride.
She performed her part
indeed without much graciousness, but Mrs. Bennet was satisfied, and
soon afterwards ordered her carriage.
She was no sooner in possession of it
than, hurrying into the little copse, where she was least likely to
be interrupted, she sat down on one of the benches and prepared to
be happy; for the length of the letter convinced her that it did not
contain a denial.
The suspicions which had just
arisen of Mr. Darcy and their niece directed their observation towards
each with an earnest though guarded inquiry; and they soon drew from
those inquiries the full conviction that one of them at least knew
what it was to love.
said he,
as he joined her.
It will not do.
One may be continually
abusive without saying anything just; but one cannot always be laughing
at a man without now and then stumbling on something witty."
The steady countenance which Miss Lucas had commanded in telling her
story, gave way to a momentary confusion here on receiving so direct a
reproach; though, as it was no more than she expected, she soon regained
her composure, and calmly replied:

"Why should you be surprised, my dear Eliza?
I should be sorry, you know,
to think ill of a young man who has lived so long in Derbyshire."
Elizabeth, who was left by herself, now smiled at the rapidity and ease
with which an affair was finally settled, that had given them so many
previous months of suspense and vexation.
But he found, in reply to this question, that Wickham still
cherished the hope of more effectually making his fortune by marriage in
some other country.
Mrs. Gardiner was standing a little behind; and on her pausing, he asked
her if she would do him the honour of introducing him to her friends.
They could have
been understood only by her mother, who might have felt nearly the same.
You must contrive to send somebody.
She likes to have the distinction of rank
preserved."
The elder Miss Bennets alone were still able to eat, drink,
and sleep, and pursue the usual course of their employments.
As he spoke there was a sort of smile which Elizabeth fancied she
understood; he must be supposing her to be thinking of Jane and
Netherfield, and she blushed as she answered:

"I do not mean to say that a woman may not be settled too near her
family.
"I never saw anyone so shocked.
She knew not the exact degree of his affection for his
aunt, or his dependence on her judgment, but it was natural to suppose
that he thought much higher of her ladyship than _she_ could do; and it
was certain that, in enumerating the miseries of a marriage with _one_,
whose immediate connections were so unequal to his own, his aunt would
address him on his weakest side.
Elizabeth was not surprised at it, as
Jane had written the direction remarkably ill.
"In point of composition," said Mary, "the letter does not seem
defective.
Mr. Darcy has not authorised me
to make his communication public.
I
really cannot _laugh_ at it.
"It keeps him in good
humour," said she, "and I am more obliged to you than I can express."
How can they suit each other?
Wickham was not at all more distressed than herself, but his manners
were always so pleasing, that had his character and his marriage been
exactly what they ought, his smiles and his easy address, while he
claimed their relationship, would have delighted them all.
When this was
done she had a less active part to play.
I speak
feelingly.
"His misfortunes!"
Or, why did he
thus come a day before he was expected?
Mrs. Gardiner then rallied her niece on Wickham's desertion, and
complimented her on bearing it so well.
And, besides, no traces of them were to be found on the
Barnet road."
She could not help frequently
glancing her eye at Mr. Darcy, though every glance convinced her of what
she dreaded; for though he was not always looking at her mother, she was
convinced that his attention was invariably fixed by her.
But do you
always write such charming long letters to her, Mr.
The family were assembled in the breakfast room to receive
them.
We now come to the point.
Elizabeth said as little to either as civility would allow, and sat down
again to her work, with an eagerness which it did not often command.
Conjectures as to the meaning of it, rapid and wild, hurried into her
brain; but she was satisfied with none.
it is just as he chooses.
Sir William, how can you tell such a story?
You are
not well enough; you cannot go yourself."
It is
not likely that money should be very abundant on either side; and it
might strike them that they could be more economically, though less
expeditiously, married in London than in Scotland."
"This is not to be borne.
If, indeed, it should be so!
Shall you like to have such a brother?"
In spite of what her sister declared, and really believed to be her
feelings in the expectation of his arrival, Elizabeth could easily
perceive that her spirits were affected by it.
Mrs. Gardiner and Elizabeth talked of all that had occurred during their
visit, as they returned, except what had particularly interested them
both.
Mr. Darcy danced
only once with Mrs. Hurst and once with Miss Bingley, declined being
introduced to any other lady, and spent the rest of the evening in
walking about the room, speaking occasionally to one of his own party.
When all of the house that was open to general inspection had been seen,
they returned downstairs, and, taking leave of the housekeeper, were
consigned over to the gardener, who met them at the hall-door.
Bingley?"
After a pause of some minutes, she addressed him a second time
with:--"It is _your_ turn to say something now, Mr. Darcy.
Happy for all her maternal feelings was the day on which Mrs. Bennet got
rid of her two most deserving daughters.
The whist party soon afterwards breaking up, the players gathered round
the other table and Mr. Collins took his station between his cousin
Elizabeth and Mrs. Phillips.
"Good heavens!"
In the next room is
a new instrument just come down for her--a present from my master; she
comes here to-morrow with him."
Elizabeth was now to see Mr. Wickham for the last time.
Well, I was so frightened I
did not know what to do, for my uncle was to give me away; and if we
were beyond the hour, we could not be married all day.
If your abhorrence of _me_
should make _my_ assertions valueless, you cannot be prevented by
the same cause from confiding in my cousin; and that there may be
the possibility of consulting him, I shall endeavour to find some
opportunity of putting this letter in your hands in the course of the
morning.
But Jane was to go home with her, and at
Longbourn there would be leisure enough for observation.
His disposition
must be dreadful."
Elizabeth excused herself as well as she could; said that she had liked
him better when they had met in Kent than before, and that she had never
seen him so pleasant as this morning.
They have some of the finest woods in the
country."
What do
you keep winking at me for?
But tell me, what did you come down to
Netherfield for?
Darcy?"
Elizabeth read on:

"I have seen them both.
I do not think
it is very pretty; but I thought I might as well buy it as not.
In that case he would return no more.
"You must be surprised,
very much surprised--so lately as Mr. Collins was wishing to marry
you.
He now wished it more than ever.
The dinner was exceedingly handsome, and there were all the servants and
all the articles of plate which Mr. Collins had promised; and, as he had
likewise foretold, he took his seat at the bottom of the table, by her
ladyship's desire, and looked as if he felt that life could furnish
nothing greater.
That the Miss Lucases and the Miss Bennets should meet to talk over
a ball was absolutely necessary; and the morning after the assembly
brought the former to Longbourn to hear and to communicate.
And he had spoken in such terms of Elizabeth as to leave Georgiana
without the power of finding her otherwise than lovely and amiable.
"My uncle is to send a servant for us."
mamma, do the
people hereabouts know I am married to-day?
"That is a question which I hardly know how to answer.
She
soon learnt that they were indebted for their present good understanding
to the efforts of his aunt, who did call on him in her return through
London, and there relate her journey to Longbourn, its motive, and the
substance of her conversation with Elizabeth; dwelling emphatically on
every expression of the latter which, in her ladyship's apprehension,
peculiarly denoted her perverseness and assurance; in the belief that
such a relation must assist her endeavours to obtain that promise
from her nephew which she had refused to give.
"They have both," said she, "been deceived, I dare say, in some way
or other, of which we can form no idea.
But she
had chosen it with her eyes open; and though evidently regretting that
her visitors were to go, she did not seem to ask for compassion.
In a few minutes, Mrs.
Bennet half-opened the door and called out:

"Lizzy, my dear, I want to speak with you."
We were always good friends; and
now we are better."
"And quite alone?
I am glad of one thing, that he comes
alone; because we shall see the less of him.
It is a grievous affair to my poor girls, you
must confess.
A thousand things may arise in six months!"
It was very little less.
"Shall we ask your cousin the reason of this?"
What, all five out at once?
Jane had already written a few lines to her sister to announce their
safe arrival in London; and when she wrote again, Elizabeth hoped it
would be in her power to say something of the Bingleys.
"And yet I meant to be uncommonly clever in taking so decided a dislike
to him, without any reason.
It is a nice long walk, and Mr. Darcy has
never seen the view."
"But if he does it any more I shall certainly let him know that I see
what he is about.
So imprudent a match on both sides!
"I think she will.
And then when we came away it was such fun!
Elizabeth looked with unaffected astonishment.
"Some time or other he _will_ be--but it shall not be by _me_.
Wickham passed all his youth there, you
know."
Elizabeth, though expecting no less, thanked
him with tears of gratitude; and all three being actuated by one spirit,
everything relating to their journey was speedily settled.
He did not
repeat his persuasion of their not marrying--and from _that_, I am
inclined to hope, he might have been misunderstood before."
But I have
other provocations.
"I advise Mr. Darcy, and Lizzy, and Kitty," said Mrs. Bennet, "to walk
to Oakham Mount this morning.
The dinner was as well dressed as any I ever saw.
To
this discovery succeeded some others equally mortifying.
Hear me in silence.
"Thank you," said Lydia, "for if you did, I should certainly tell you
all, and then Wickham would be angry."
Pray read on."
"But you--how are you?"
Elizabeth received her
congratulations amongst the rest, and then, sick of this folly, took
refuge in her own room, that she might think with freedom.
In nine cases out of ten a women had better show _more_
affection than she feels.
I knew how it
would be.
To Kitty, however, it does not seem so wholly unexpected.
You are
each of you so complying, that nothing will ever be resolved on; so
easy, that every servant will cheat you; and so generous, that you will
always exceed your income."
Anxious
and uneasy, the period which passed in the drawing-room, before the
gentlemen came, was wearisome and dull to a degree that almost made her
uncivil.
cried he, turning towards her.
I do think Mrs. Long is as good
a creature as ever lived--and her nieces are very pretty behaved girls,
and not at all handsome: I like them prodigiously."
"As I did the other day," said Elizabeth with a conscious smile: "very
true, it will be wise in me to refrain from _that_.
It could not be for society, as he frequently sat there
ten minutes together without opening his lips; and when he did speak,
it seemed the effect of necessity rather than of choice--a sacrifice
to propriety, not a pleasure to himself.
She
would not listen, therefore, to her daughter's proposal of being carried
home; neither did the apothecary, who arrived about the same time, think
it at all advisable.
We
dressed up Chamberlayne in woman's clothes on purpose to pass for a
lady, only think what fun!
But the
case is this: We are not rich enough or grand enough for them; and she
is the more anxious to get Miss Darcy for her brother, from the notion
that when there has been _one_ intermarriage, she may have less trouble
in achieving a second; in which there is certainly some ingenuity, and
I dare say it would succeed, if Miss de Bourgh were out of the way.
"If you will only tell me what sort of girl Miss King is, I shall know
what to think."
You must write again very soon, and praise him a
great deal more than you did in your last.
You
may have drawn him in."
"Well girls," said she, as soon as they were left to themselves, "What
say you to the day?
With amazement did
she first understand that he believed any apology to be in his power;
and steadfastly was she persuaded, that he could have no explanation
to give, which a just sense of shame would not conceal.
I do assure you that my intimacy has
not yet taught me _that_.
He
was not seated by her; perhaps that was the reason of his silence; but
it had not been so in Derbyshire.
She was proceeding
directly to her favourite walk, when the recollection of Mr. Darcy's
sometimes coming there stopped her, and instead of entering the park,
she turned up the lane, which led farther from the turnpike-road.
Lydia, my love, though you _are_
the youngest, I dare say Mr. Bingley will dance with you at the next
ball."
Why, especially, when you called, did
you look as if you did not care about me?"
He was quite young, wonderfully handsome, extremely
agreeable, and, to crown the whole, he meant to be at the next assembly
with a large party.
His reception, however, was of the most flattering kind.
She will follow wherever Lydia leads.
No officer is ever to enter into
my house again, nor even to pass through the village.
He was
angry.
Mr. Wickham began to speak on more general topics, Meryton, the
neighbourhood, the society, appearing highly pleased with all that
he had yet seen, and speaking of the latter with gentle but very
intelligible gallantry.
Lizzy, to
know that what I have to relate will give such pleasure to all my dear
family!
Three daughters married!
She said no more, and they went down the other dance and parted in
silence; and on each side dissatisfied, though not to an equal degree,
for in Darcy's breast there was a tolerable powerful feeling towards
her, which soon procured her pardon, and directed all his anger against
another.
The whole party were in hopes of a letter from Mr. Bennet the next
morning, but the post came in without bringing a single line from him.
I found that
Miss Darcy was expected to dinner.
"How despicably I have acted!"
I am sure you must feel it
so."
She could not think of Darcy's leaving Kent without remembering that
his cousin was to go with him; but Colonel Fitzwilliam had made it clear
that he had no intentions at all, and agreeable as he was, she did not
mean to be unhappy about him.
of all his sister's falsehood and contrivance!
"A man in distressed circumstances has not time for all those elegant
decorums which other people may observe.
When they left the high road for the lane to Hunsford, every eye was in
search of the Parsonage, and every turning expected to bring it in view.
He declared himself to be totally unsuspicious of her
sister's attachment; and she could not help remembering what Charlotte's
opinion had always been.
He saw Wickham, and
afterwards insisted on seeing Lydia.
"I do not know.
Oh!
"And this," said she, "is the end of all his friend's anxious
circumspection!
I shall walk to Meryton to-morrow to hear more
about it, and to ask when Mr. Denny comes back from town."
And there was
my aunt, all the time I was dressing, preaching and talking away just as
if she was reading a sermon.
It would vex me, indeed, to see you again
the dupe of Miss Bingley's pretended regard."
"But it is fortunate," thought she, "that I have something to wish for.
Her
coming there was the most unfortunate, the most ill-judged thing in the
world!
He wrote last week to hurry my return."
"That is exactly what I should have supposed of you," said Elizabeth.
I write rather slowly."
"It certainly is a most iniquitous affair," said Mr. Bennet, "and
nothing can clear Mr. Collins from the guilt of inheriting Longbourn.
He was my godfather, and excessively attached to me.
Had Elizabeth's opinion been all drawn from her own family, she could
not have formed a very pleasing opinion of conjugal felicity or domestic
comfort.
I am sorry to have occasioned pain to
anyone.
The five weeks which she had now passed in Kent had
made a great difference in the country, and every day was adding to the
verdure of the early trees.
Elizabeth could not help smiling at his easy manner of directing his
friend.
With _your_
good sense, to be so honestly blind to the follies and nonsense of
others!
He saw Wickham, and
afterwards insisted on seeing Lydia.
I am
no stranger to the particulars of your youngest sister's infamous
elopement.
He is now, perhaps, sorry for what he has done, and anxious to
re-establish a character.
Elizabeth received
them with all the forbearance of civility, and, at the request of the
gentlemen, remained at the instrument till her ladyship's carriage was
ready to take them all home.
There
was novelty in the scheme, and as, with such a mother and such
uncompanionable sisters, home could not be faultless, a little change
was not unwelcome for its own sake.
She was at least free from the offense of Mr. Darcy's further notice;
though often standing within a very short distance of her, quite
disengaged, he never came near enough to speak.
The dinner too in its turn was highly admired; and
he begged to know to which of his fair cousins the excellency of its
cooking was owing.
How merry we shall be together when we meet!"
"But," he added, "you will of course wish to have your humble respects
delivered to them, with your grateful thanks for their kindness to you
while you have been here."
It is unaccountable!
"Now, Kitty, you may cough as much as you choose," said Mr. Bennet; and,
as he spoke, he left the room, fatigued with the raptures of his wife.
Elizabeth thanked him from her heart, and then walked towards the
table where a few books were lying.
Well,
Jane, make haste and tell us; make haste, my love."
Observing his second daughter employed in trimming a hat, he
suddenly addressed her with:

"I hope Mr. Bingley will like it, Lizzy."
GARDINER."
But of course she did not mention my name to you."
The Collinses will turn us out before he is cold in his
grave, and if you are not kind to us, brother, I do not know what we
shall do."
"Go, my dear," cried her mother, "and show her ladyship about the
different walks.
Every sentence of
kindness was a fresh source of happiness to Jane.
"But there seems an indelicacy in directing his attentions towards her
so soon after this event."
My dear Jane, Mr. Collins is a
conceited, pompous, narrow-minded, silly man; you know he is, as well as
I do; and you must feel, as well as I do, that the woman who married him
cannot have a proper way of thinking.
His marriage was
now fast approaching, and she was at length so far resigned as to think
it inevitable, and even repeatedly to say, in an ill-natured tone, that
she "_wished_ they might be happy."
It was really a very
handsome thought.
Her ease and good
spirits increased.
_Her_ mind
was less difficult to develop.
I shall
send for my clothes when I get to Longbourn; but I wish you would tell
Sally to mend a great slit in my worked muslin gown before they are
packed up.
On this subject, what can you have to
say?
A great many changes have happened in the neighbourhood,
since you went away.
You
would have been less amiable in my eyes had there _not_ been this little
unwillingness; but allow me to assure you, that I have your respected
mother's permission for this address.
Her ladyship's carriage is regularly ordered for us.
She was shown into the breakfast-parlour, where all but Jane were
assembled, and where her appearance created a great deal of surprise.
He then went away, and Miss Bingley was left to all the satisfaction of
having forced him to say what gave no one any pain but herself.
"Certainly," replied Elizabeth--"there are such people, but I hope I
am not one of _them_.
I have suspected it some time, but
I am now convinced."
Lady Catherine was extremely indignant on the marriage of her nephew;
and as she gave way to all the genuine frankness of her character in
her reply to the letter which announced its arrangement, she sent him
language so very abusive, especially of Elizabeth, that for some time
all intercourse was at an end.
'Tis as good as a Lord!
"Upon my word," said her ladyship, "you give your opinion very decidedly
for so young a person.
"What could become of Mr. Bingley and Jane!"
Mrs. Reynolds informed them that it had been taken in his father's
lifetime.
Last Christmas you were afraid of his marrying me,
because it would be imprudent; and now, because he is trying to get
a girl with only ten thousand pounds, you want to find out that he is
mercenary."
"What an excellent father you have, girls!"
But he is a liberal
master, I suppose, and _that_ in the eye of a servant comprehends every
virtue."
Your mother insists upon your
accepting it.
"My dear, Eliza, he must be in love with you, or he would never
have called us in this familiar way."
But I tell you, Miss Lizzy--if you take it
into your head to go on refusing every offer of marriage in this way,
you will never get a husband at all--and I am sure I do not know who is
to maintain you when your father is dead.
Mrs. Bennet had no turn for economy, and her
husband's love of independence had alone prevented their exceeding their
income.
But it was not to be.
"Oh!
I have known him
too long and too well to be a fair judge.
"Yes, ma'am, all."
They had now entered a beautiful walk by the side of the water, and
every step was bringing forward a nobler fall of ground, or a finer
reach of the woods to which they were approaching; but it was some time
before Elizabeth was sensible of any of it; and, though she answered
mechanically to the repeated appeals of her uncle and aunt, and
seemed to direct her eyes to such objects as they pointed out, she
distinguished no part of the scene.
Mr.
Collins then returned to Elizabeth.
But self, though it would intrude, could not engross her.
I do not believe she often sees such at home."
Oh!
Heaven and earth!--of what are
you thinking?
repeated the other, as she ran into her room to
prepare.
Mrs. Long told me last night that he
sat close to her for half-an-hour without once opening his lips."
As soon as I get to town I shall go to my brother, and make
him come home with me to Gracechurch Street; and then we may consult
together as to what is to be done."
Is there nothing you could take to give you
present relief?
Proud that in a cause
of compassion and honour, he had been able to get the better of himself.
Jane instantly gave a look
at Elizabeth which spoke her distress at such premeditation, and her
entreaty that _she_ would not give in to it.
said he,
with a look of doubt.
It seems to me to show an abominable sort of conceited independence,
a most country-town indifference to decorum."
There is nothing extravagant in _their_
housekeeping, I dare say."
"My father and Maria are coming to me in March," added Charlotte, "and I
hope you will consent to be of the party.
The bride and her mother could neither
of them talk fast enough; and Wickham, who happened to sit near
Elizabeth, began inquiring after his acquaintance in that neighbourhood,
with a good humoured ease which she felt very unable to equal in her
replies.
He had by that time reached it also, and, holding out a letter,
which she instinctively took, said, with a look of haughty composure,
"I have been walking in the grove some time in the hope of meeting you.
_That_
is my idea of good breeding; and those persons who fancy themselves very
important, and never open their mouths, quite mistake the matter."
cried Jane, "what do you mean, sir?"
Jane was by no means better.
We had better go into the
avenue."
"Where is your sister?"
She knew but little
of their meeting in Derbyshire, and therefore felt for the awkwardness
which must attend her sister, in seeing him almost for the first time
after receiving his explanatory letter.
Mrs. Gardiner and her niece,
however, did her justice, and pitied her.
"Blame you!
Now, Lizzy, I think I _have_
surprised you.
"Indeed I am.
But, Lizzy, you
look as if you did not enjoy it.
There--I have saved you the trouble of accounting for
it; and really, all things considered, I begin to think it perfectly
reasonable.
She hardly knew how to suppose that she could be an object of
admiration to so great a man; and yet that he should look at her
because he disliked her, was still more strange.
That will
make thirteen with ourselves, so there will be just room at table for
him."
The family were assembled in the breakfast room to receive
them.
Her mother's ungraciousness,
made the sense of what they owed him more painful to Elizabeth's mind;
and she would, at times, have given anything to be privileged to tell
him that his kindness was neither unknown nor unfelt by the whole of the
family.
"Not at all," was her answer; "but depend upon it, he means to be severe
on us, and our surest way of disappointing him will be to ask nothing
about it."
"I have been thinking it over again, Elizabeth," said her uncle, as they
drove from the town; "and really, upon serious consideration, I am much
more inclined than I was to judge as your eldest sister does on the
matter.
"Nay, if you are serious about it, I shall consider the matter is
absolutely settled.
"Oh!
She had not at first thought very seriously of
going thither; but Charlotte, she soon found, was depending on the plan
and she gradually learned to consider it herself with greater pleasure
as well as greater certainty.
Charlotte assured her friend of her satisfaction in being useful, and
that it amply repaid her for the little sacrifice of her time.
A most welcome negative followed the last question--and her
alarms now being removed, she was at leisure to feel a great deal of
curiosity to see the house herself; and when the subject was revived the
next morning, and she was again applied to, could readily answer, and
with a proper air of indifference, that she had not really any dislike
to the scheme.
my sweetest Lizzy!
Till I
can forget his father, I can never defy or expose _him_."
"What, has she frightened away
some of your lovers?
"When you have killed all your own birds, Mr. Bingley," said her mother,
"I beg you will come here, and shoot as many as you please on Mr.
Bennet's manor.
Let them triumph over us at a distance, and be satisfied."
I will not tell you what it is.
How Mr. Darcy looked, therefore, she could
not tell.
"Elizabeth Bennet," said Miss Bingley, when the door was closed on her,
"is one of those young ladies who seek to recommend themselves to the
other sex by undervaluing their own; and with many men, I dare say, it
succeeds.
Mrs. Bennet
wondered at their coming, and thought them very wrong to give so much
trouble, and was sure Jane would have caught cold again.
Elizabeth did not know what to make of it.
That I was desirous of believing her indifferent is
certain--but I will venture to say that my investigation and decisions
are not usually influenced by my hopes or fears.
I was afraid they might not;
and we overtook William Goulding in his curricle, so I was determined he
should know it, and so I let down the side-glass next to him, and took
off my glove, and let my hand just rest upon the window frame, so that
he might see the ring, and then I bowed and smiled like anything."
"This, madam, is a faithful narrative of every event in which we have
been concerned together; and if you do not absolutely reject it as
false, you will, I hope, acquit me henceforth of cruelty towards Mr.
Wickham.
She was shown into the breakfast-parlour, where all but Jane were
assembled, and where her appearance created a great deal of surprise.
About the court, such
instances of elegant breeding are not uncommon."
Their situation was awkward enough; but _hers_ she
thought was still worse.
He
_was_ coming to us, in order to assure us of his concern, before he had
any idea of their not being gone to Scotland: when that apprehension
first got abroad, it hastened his journey."
They now walked on in silence, each of them deep in thought.
It was not to be supposed that time would give Lydia that embarrassment
from which she had been so wholly free at first.
Supposing him to be attached to me, would
my refusing to accept his hand make him wish to bestow it on his cousin?
She stood several minutes before the picture, in earnest
contemplation, and returned to it again before they quitted the gallery.
It was to this effect:

"Since writing the above, dearest Lizzy, something has occurred of a
most unexpected and serious nature; but I am afraid of alarming you--be
assured that we are all well.
His apparent partiality had subsided, his attentions were over,
he was the admirer of some one else.
"Your ladyship has declared it to be impossible."
He has given in all his debts; I
hope at least he has not deceived us.
But are you pleased,
Jane?
It soothed,
but it could not console her for the contempt which had thus been
self-attracted by the rest of her family; and as she considered
that Jane's disappointment had in fact been the work of her nearest
relations, and reflected how materially the credit of both must be hurt
by such impropriety of conduct, she felt depressed beyond anything she
had ever known before.
"And what has been done, what has been attempted, to recover her?"
Elizabeth did not quit her room for a moment; nor were
the other ladies often absent; the gentlemen being out, they had, in
fact, nothing to do elsewhere.
After walking several miles in a leisurely manner, and too busy to know
anything about it, they found at last, on examining their watches, that
it was time to be at home.
"Indeed, you are mistaken, Madam.
My kind friends will not
hear of my returning till I am better.
We do not suffer by _accident_.
And now do, when you get to town, find them out,
wherever they may be; and if they are not married already, _make_ them
marry.
Painful recollections will intrude
which cannot, which ought not, to be repelled.
As yet,
she cannot even be certain of the degree of her own regard nor of its
reasonableness.
In this manner Lady Catherine talked on, till they were at the door of
the carriage, when, turning hastily round, she added, "I take no leave
of you, Miss Bennet.
And is
such a girl to be my nephew's sister?
His circumstances, he assured
me, and I had no difficulty in believing it, were exceedingly bad.
Never had his wit been directed in a manner so
little agreeable to her.
"Perhaps that is not possible for anyone.
"Of whom does Jane ever think ill?
But in general and ordinary cases between friend and friend,
where one of them is desired by the other to change a resolution of no
very great moment, should you think ill of that person for complying
with the desire, without waiting to be argued into it?"
"And what arts did he use to separate them?"
Upon the whole, I am much pleased with him."
In an hurried manner he immediately began an inquiry after her
health, imputing his visit to a wish of hearing that she were better.
Colonel Forster gives us reason to expect
him here soon.
Tease him--laugh at him.
Till Elizabeth entered the drawing-room at Netherfield, and looked in
vain for Mr. Wickham among the cluster of red coats there assembled, a
doubt of his being present had never occurred to her.
"It is a long time, Mr. Bingley, since you went away," said Mrs. Bennet.
This was
very amiable, but Charlotte's kindness extended farther than Elizabeth
had any conception of; its object was nothing else than to secure her
from any return of Mr. Collins's addresses, by engaging them towards
herself.
But, whatever may be their own wishes, it is very unlikely
they should have opposed their brother's.
"I honour your circumspection.
Mr. Darcy may
perhaps have _heard_ of such a place as Gracechurch Street, but he
would hardly think a month's ablution enough to cleanse him from its
impurities, were he once to enter it; and depend upon it, Mr. Bingley
never stirs without him."
After a short pause,
her companion added, "You are too generous to trifle with me.
It was, moreover, such a promising thing for her younger
daughters, as Jane's marrying so greatly must throw them in the way of
other rich men; and lastly, it was so pleasant at her time of life to be
able to consign her single daughters to the care of their sister, that
she might not be obliged to go into company more than she liked.
it must be my uncle's doings!
By Jane, this attention was received with the greatest
pleasure, but Elizabeth still saw superciliousness in their treatment
of everybody, hardly excepting even her sister, and could not like them;
though their kindness to Jane, such as it was, had a value as arising in
all probability from the influence of their brother's admiration.
Her hopes were answered; Jane had not been gone long before
it rained hard.
"Your affectionate friend,

"LYDIA BENNET."
And gravely glancing
at Mr. Darcy, "There is a fine old saying, which everybody here is of
course familiar with: 'Keep your breath to cool your porridge'; and I
shall keep mine to swell my song."
As he was to begin his journey too early on the morrow to see any of the
family, the ceremony of leave-taking was performed when the ladies moved
for the night; and Mrs. Bennet, with great politeness and cordiality,
said how happy they should be to see him at Longbourn again, whenever
his engagements might allow him to visit them.
But when she read and re-read with the closest attention, the
particulars immediately following of Wickham's resigning all pretensions
to the living, of his receiving in lieu so considerable a sum as three
thousand pounds, again was she forced to hesitate.
and, with no little alarm, whether the family were down for
the summer?
They can
only wish his happiness; and if he is attached to me, no other woman can
secure it."
Never in her life had she seen his manners so little dignified, never
had he spoken with such gentleness as on this unexpected meeting.
Its completion depended on others.
"Yes," replied Darcy, who could contain himself no longer, "but _that_
was only when I first saw her, for it is many months since I have
considered her as one of the handsomest women of my acquaintance."
I speak
feelingly.
"She did not choose it," said her daughter, "she would go."
Your mother must
have been quite a slave to your education."
"Did it," said he, "did it soon make you
think better of me?
Elizabeth, who had a letter
to write, went into the breakfast room for that purpose soon after tea;
for as the others were all going to sit down to cards, she could not be
wanted to counteract her mother's schemes.
She will be taken good care of.
I assure you that I have now learnt to enjoy his conversation as an
agreeable and sensible young man, without having a wish beyond it.
I declare I do not
know a more awful object than Darcy, on particular occasions, and in
particular places; at his own house especially, and of a Sunday evening,
when he has nothing to do."
There was no want of discourse.
Do
you draw?"
Was it merely to ride to Longbourn and be embarrassed?
Elizabeth again, and more
seriously assured her of its truth.
The
acknowledged lovers talked and laughed, the unacknowledged were silent.
The power of doing anything with
quickness is always prized much by the possessor, and often without any
attention to the imperfection of the performance.
Mrs. Collins knew not what to make of him.
cried Elizabeth, with the greatest satisfaction.
And in the
wretched state of his own finances, there was a very powerful motive for
secrecy, in addition to his fear of discovery by Lydia's relations, for
it had just transpired that he had left gaming debts behind him to a
very considerable amount.
We are persuaded that he has pledged himself to
assist Mr. Wickham with money."
But no,"--recollecting
herself--"that could never be; my uncle and aunt would have been lost to
me; I should not have been allowed to invite them."
If I can
perceive her regard for him, he must be a simpleton, indeed, not to
discover it too."
The united efforts of his two unfeeling sisters
and of his overpowering friend, assisted by the attractions of Miss
Darcy and the amusements of London might be too much, she feared, for
the strength of his attachment.
"You quite mistook Mr. Darcy.
He cannot know what Mr.
Darcy is."
how
would she have behaved?"
Mr. Bennet made no answer, and each of them, deep in thought, continued
silent till they reached the house.
"To oblige you, I would try to believe almost anything, but no one else
could be benefited by such a belief as this; for were I persuaded that
Charlotte had any regard for him, I should only think worse of her
understanding than I now do of her heart.
You were disgusted with the women who were always speaking,
and looking, and thinking for _your_ approbation alone.
His own father did not long
survive mine, and within half a year from these events, Mr. Wickham
wrote to inform me that, having finally resolved against taking orders,
he hoped I should not think it unreasonable for him to expect some more
immediate pecuniary advantage, in lieu of the preferment, by which he
could not be benefited.
All
Elizabeth's anger against him had been long done away; but had she still
felt any, it could hardly have stood its ground against the unaffected
cordiality with which he expressed himself on seeing her again.
Miss Darcy, the daughter of
Mr. Darcy, of Pemberley, and Lady Anne, could not have appeared with
propriety in a different manner.
But I think Mr. Darcy improves upon acquaintance."
Collins, you
must marry.
I
described, and enforced them earnestly.
Her father, captivated by youth and beauty, and that appearance
of good humour which youth and beauty generally give, had married a
woman whose weak understanding and illiberal mind had very early in
their marriage put an end to all real affection for her.
Mr. Denny addressed them directly, and entreated
permission to introduce his friend, Mr. Wickham, who had returned with
him the day before from town, and he was happy to say had accepted a
commission in their corps.
I
really cannot _laugh_ at it.
She had even condescended to advise him to
marry as soon as he could, provided he chose with discretion; and had
once paid him a visit in his humble parsonage, where she had perfectly
approved all the alterations he had been making, and had even vouchsafed
to suggest some herself--some shelves in the closet up stairs."
said Elizabeth.
The distinction had perhaps been felt too strongly.
Poor little Lizzy!
So high and so conceited that there was no enduring
him!
Jane was distressed.
"To-morrow fortnight."
Her astonishment, as she reflected on what had passed,
was increased by every review of it.
He took leave of his
relations at Longbourn with as much solemnity as before; wished his fair
cousins health and happiness again, and promised their father another
letter of thanks.
He and his sisters were well, I hope, when you left London?"
Mrs. Gardiner was standing a little behind; and on her pausing, he asked
her if she would do him the honour of introducing him to her friends.
repeated Mr. Bennet.
These causes must be stated, though briefly.
Why should _he_ have it more than anybody else?"
Mrs. Bennet was prevented replying by the entrance of the footman with
a note for Miss Bennet; it came from Netherfield, and the servant waited
for an answer.
Elizabeth felt herself growing more angry every moment; yet she tried to
the utmost to speak with composure when she said:

"You are mistaken, Mr. Darcy, if you suppose that the mode of your
declaration affected me in any other way, than as it spared me the concern
which I might have felt in refusing you, had you behaved in a more
gentlemanlike manner."
Have all her friends left her?"
But he was set right there by Mrs. Bennet, who
assured him with some asperity that they were very well able to keep a
good cook, and that her daughters had nothing to do in the kitchen.
You are all to come to Pemberley at Christmas.
Wickham will never marry a woman without some money.
Elizabeth said no more--but her mind could not acquiesce.
But, however, he did not admire her at all; indeed, nobody
can, you know; and he seemed quite struck with Jane as she was going
down the dance.
But she
had chosen it with her eyes open; and though evidently regretting that
her visitors were to go, she did not seem to ask for compassion.
Mary, though pretending not to hear, was somewhat disconcerted; and
Elizabeth, sorry for her, and sorry for her father's speech, was afraid
her anxiety had done no good.
You have liked many a
stupider person."
"In my opinion, the younger son of an earl can know very little of
either.
She blushed at the very idea, and
thought it would be better to speak openly to her aunt than to run such
a risk.
"Oh!
"I must ask whether you were surprised?"
He was her dear Wickham on every
occasion; no one was to be put in competition with him.
But before I am run away with by my feelings on this
subject, perhaps it would be advisable for me to state my reasons for
marrying--and, moreover, for coming into Hertfordshire with the design
of selecting a wife, as I certainly did."
Mr. Wickham
had received his commission before he left London, and he was to join
his regiment at the end of a fortnight.
Elizabeth immediately began playing again.
I
did not expect such a compliment."
Jane had been a week in town without either seeing or
hearing from Caroline.
This is your final resolve!
This was agreed to, and Mrs. Phillips
protested that they would have a nice comfortable noisy game of lottery
tickets, and a little bit of hot supper afterwards.
"Oh!
She asked her, at different times, how many sisters
she had, whether they were older or younger than herself, whether any of
them were likely to be married, whether they were handsome, where they
had been educated, what carriage her father kept, and what had been
her mother's maiden name?
Be that as it may, she saw him
go with regret; and in this early example of what Lydia's infamy must
produce, found additional anguish as she reflected on that wretched
business.
"I certainly have not the talent which some people possess," said Darcy,
"of conversing easily with those I have never seen before.
Lizzy is not a bit better than the
others; and I am sure she is not half so handsome as Jane, nor half so
good-humoured as Lydia.
"When I consider," she added in a yet
more agitated voice, "that I might have prevented it!
"It is _not_ Mr. Bingley," said her husband; "it is a person whom I
never saw in the whole course of my life."
I quite forgot!
"I do not blame Jane," she continued, "for Jane would have got Mr.
Bingley if she could.
The expression
of his face changed gradually from indignant contempt to a composed and
steady gravity.
A resemblance in good humour
and good spirits had recommended her and Lydia to each other, and out of
their _three_ months' acquaintance they had been intimate _two_.
There was no help
for it, however.
But she is too much like her brother--very, very
proud.
Mr. Gardiner, highly amused by the kind of family
prejudice to which he attributed her excessive commendation of her
master, soon led again to the subject; and she dwelt with energy on his
many merits as they proceeded together up the great staircase.
The rest of his letter is only about his dear Charlotte's
situation, and his expectation of a young olive-branch.
She felt that she had no business at
Pemberley, and was obliged to assume a disinclination for seeing it.
_You_ wish to think all the
world respectable, and are hurt if I speak ill of anybody.
"Oh!
She got up, and ran out of the room;
and returned no more, till she heard them passing through the hall to
the dining parlour.
I appeal to Mr. Darcy:--but let me not interrupt you, sir.
Both changed colour, one looked white, the other red.
I thought we never
should have got into the coach.
Elizabeth accepted their company, and the three young ladies set off
together.
"You are quite right.
We
know how little there is to tempt anyone to our humble abode.
My poor father!
I sincerely hope your Christmas in Hertfordshire may
abound in the gaieties which that season generally brings, and that your
beaux will be so numerous as to prevent your feeling the loss of the
three of whom we shall deprive you."
"You must not be too severe upon yourself," replied Elizabeth.
Elizabeth felt that they had entirely misunderstood his character, but
said nothing.
I cannot forget the follies and vices of others
so soon as I ought, nor their offenses against myself.
"You have reduced
him to his present state of poverty--comparative poverty.
Of neither Darcy nor Wickham
could she think without feeling she had been blind, partial, prejudiced,
absurd.
"How can you talk so?"
But if it be only a slight, thin sort of inclination, I
am convinced that one good sonnet will starve it entirely away."
"You have no regard, then, for the honour and credit of my nephew!
The reason of this
sudden removal was soon evident.
cried Jane, "what do you mean, sir?"
It will pass away soon enough."
"If he were ever able to learn what Wickham's debts have been," said
Elizabeth, "and how much is settled on his side on our sister, we shall
exactly know what Mr. Gardiner has done for them, because Wickham has
not sixpence of his own.
Her eldest daughter endeavoured to give some relief to the violence of
these transports, by leading her thoughts to the obligations which Mr.
Gardiner's behaviour laid them all under.
"Mr. Collins appears to be very fortunate in his choice of a wife."
The day of his and Lydia's departure soon came, and Mrs. Bennet was
forced to submit to a separation, which, as her husband by no means
entered into her scheme of their all going to Newcastle, was likely to
continue at least a twelvemonth.
But here she did injustice to the fire and independence of his
character, for it led him to escape out of Longbourn House the next
morning with admirable slyness, and hasten to Lucas Lodge to throw
himself at her feet.
cried Elizabeth, darting from her seat
as she finished the letter, in eagerness to follow him, without losing
a moment of the time so precious; but as she reached the door it was
opened by a servant, and Mr. Darcy appeared.
"Now I have got some news for you," said Lydia, as they sat down at
table.
Every park has its beauty and its prospects; and
Elizabeth saw much to be pleased with, though she could not be in such
raptures as Mr. Collins expected the scene to inspire, and was but
slightly affected by his enumeration of the windows in front of the
house, and his relation of what the glazing altogether had originally
cost Sir Lewis de Bourgh.
It mortifies me.
"Were it certain that Lady Catherine would think so," said Mr. Collins
very gravely--"but I cannot imagine that her ladyship would at all
disapprove of you.
In Lydia's imagination, a visit to Brighton comprised
every possibility of earthly happiness.
Elizabeth's
eyes were fixed on her with most painful sensations, and she watched her
progress through the several stanzas with an impatience which was very
ill rewarded at their close; for Mary, on receiving, amongst the thanks
of the table, the hint of a hope that she might be prevailed on to
favour them again, after the pause of half a minute began another.
In
confirmation of this, she related the particulars of all the pecuniary
transactions in which they had been connected, without actually naming
her authority, but stating it to be such as might be relied on.
On the stairs were a troop of little boys and girls,
whose eagerness for their cousin's appearance would not allow them to
wait in the drawing-room, and whose shyness, as they had not seen
her for a twelvemonth, prevented their coming lower.
"Indeed, Mr. Bennet," said she, "it is very hard to think that Charlotte
Lucas should ever be mistress of this house, that I should be forced to
make way for _her_, and live to see her take her place in it!"
She became jealous of his esteem, when she could no
longer hope to be benefited by it.
But the horror of what might possibly happen
almost took from me my faculties."
She could not yet recover from the
surprise of what had happened; it was impossible to think of anything
else; and, totally indisposed for employment, she resolved, soon after
breakfast, to indulge herself in air and exercise.
Jane should
therefore make the most of every half-hour in which she can command his
attention.
"The indirect boast; for you are really proud of your defects in
writing, because you consider them as proceeding from a rapidity of
thought and carelessness of execution, which, if not estimable, you
think at least highly interesting.
Every day added something to their knowledge
of the officers' names and connections.
Miss Bennet was the only creature who could suppose there might be
any extenuating circumstances in the case, unknown to the society
of Hertfordshire; her mild and steady candour always pleaded for
allowances, and urged the possibility of mistakes--but by everybody else
Mr. Darcy was condemned as the worst of men.
He
smiled, looked handsome, and said many pretty things.
He joined them on their entering the town, and attended them to their
aunt's where his regret and vexation, and the concern of everybody, was
well talked over.
"But now that my dear uncle is come, I hope
everything will be well."
"It shows an affection for her sister that is very pleasing," said
Bingley.
That she should receive an offer of
marriage from Mr. Darcy!
He keeps a man-servant, does he?
Her behaviour to my dear Charlotte is
charming.
Again his astonishment was obvious; and he looked at her with an
expression of mingled incredulity and mortification.
Mr. Bennet made no answer.
But think no more of the letter.
I will speak to her about it directly.
Neither had anything occurred in the intelligence of
their Lambton friends that could materially lessen its weight.
Their eyes were
immediately wandering up in the street in quest of the officers, and
nothing less than a very smart bonnet indeed, or a really new muslin in
a shop window, could recall them.
Oh, no."
It was gratitude; gratitude, not merely for having once loved her,
but for loving her still well enough to forgive all the petulance and
acrimony of her manner in rejecting him, and all the unjust accusations
accompanying her rejection.
"Oh!
You will not think of quitting it
in a hurry, I hope, though you have but a short lease."
"How many letters you must have occasion to write in the course of a
year!
She directly replied:

"You need not be frightened.
Mr. Bennet had very often wished before this period of his life that,
instead of spending his whole income, he had laid by an annual sum for
the better provision of his children, and of his wife, if she survived
him.
After a slight preparation for good news,
the letter was read aloud.
"Ah!
Miss Darcy, the daughter of
Mr. Darcy, of Pemberley, and Lady Anne, could not have appeared with
propriety in a different manner.
You have
withheld the advantages which you must know to have been designed for
him.
Another day I will do the same; I will sit in my
library, in my nightcap and powdering gown, and give as much trouble as
I can; or, perhaps, I may defer it till Kitty runs away."
for I ought not to have mentioned the
subject.
cried he.
Words were insufficient for the elevation of his feelings; and he was
obliged to walk about the room, while Elizabeth tried to unite civility
and truth in a few short sentences.
It was gratitude; gratitude, not merely for having once loved her,
but for loving her still well enough to forgive all the petulance and
acrimony of her manner in rejecting him, and all the unjust accusations
accompanying her rejection.
At length, however, our kind friend procured the
wished-for direction.
He acknowledged the truth of it all, and said that
business with his steward had occasioned his coming forward a few hours
before the rest of the party with whom he had been travelling.
How I long to see her!
It needed
all Jane's steady mildness to bear these attacks with tolerable
tranquillity.
dear me!
He is a gentleman; I am a gentleman's daughter; so far we are
equal."
Elizabeth awoke the next morning to the same thoughts and meditations
which had at length closed her eyes.
"I am sorry, exceedingly sorry," replied Darcy, in a tone of surprise
and emotion, "that you have ever been informed of what may, in a
mistaken light, have given you uneasiness.
She immediately felt
that whatever desire Miss Darcy might have of being acquainted with her
must be the work of her brother, and, without looking farther, it was
satisfactory; it was gratifying to know that his resentment had not made
him think really ill of her.
"He meant I believe," replied Jane, "to go to Epsom, the place where
they last changed horses, see the postilions and try if anything could
be made out from them.
Caroline did not
return my visit till yesterday; and not a note, not a line, did I
receive in the meantime.
"My mother is tolerably well, I trust; though her spirits are greatly
shaken.
At present, indeed, they were well supplied both with
news and happiness by the recent arrival of a militia regiment in the
neighbourhood; it was to remain the whole winter, and Meryton was the
headquarters.
Now is your time.
I consider it as one of the first
refinements of polished society."
You must come and make
Lizzy marry Mr. Collins, for she vows she will not have him, and if you
do not make haste he will change his mind and not have _her_."
cried Elizabeth when she had
finished it.
"They have both," said she, "been deceived, I dare say, in some way
or other, of which we can form no idea.
I dare say I shall
see them soon here."
An express came at twelve last night, just as we were all gone to bed,
from Colonel Forster, to inform us that she was gone off to Scotland
with one of his officers; to own the truth, with Wickham!
But I believe I must date it from my first seeing his beautiful grounds
at Pemberley."
The manner in which they spoke of the Meryton assembly was sufficiently
characteristic.
Mr. Bingley and Jane were standing together, a little detached from the
rest, and talked only to each other.
Mary's powers were by no means fitted for such a display; her voice was
weak, and her manner affected.
This was spoken jestingly; but it appeared to her so just a picture
of Mr. Darcy, that she would not trust herself with an answer, and
therefore, abruptly changing the conversation talked on indifferent
matters until they reached the Parsonage.
"She is my youngest girl but one.
He did every
thing best in the world; and she was sure he would kill more birds on
the first of September, than any body else in the country.
But now she would no longer
conceal from her his share in Lydia's marriage.
Mr. Robinson's asking him how he liked our Meryton
assemblies, and whether he did not think there were a great many
pretty women in the room, and _which_ he thought the prettiest?
"It shows an affection for her sister that is very pleasing," said
Bingley.
"If it is designedly done, they cannot be justified; but I have no idea
of there being so much design in the world as some persons imagine."
"It ought to be so; it must be so, while he retains the use of his
reason.
"But you forget, mamma," said Elizabeth, "that we shall meet him at the
assemblies, and that Mrs. Long promised to introduce him."
She was still very poorly, and Elizabeth would not quit her at all, till
late in the evening, when she had the comfort of seeing her sleep, and
when it seemed to her rather right than pleasant that she should go
downstairs herself.
Mr. Collins on his return highly gratified Mrs. Bennet by admiring
Mrs. Phillips's manners and politeness.
Yet he knew to the contrary himself.
"I am afraid, Mr. Darcy," observed Miss Bingley in a half whisper, "that
this adventure has rather affected your admiration of her fine eyes."
That his anger could be carried to such a point of inconceivable
resentment as to refuse his daughter a privilege without which her
marriage would scarcely seem valid, exceeded all she could believe
possible.
Her astonishment, as she reflected on what had passed,
was increased by every review of it.
Then the two third he danced with Miss King,
and the two fourth with Maria Lucas, and the two fifth with Jane again,
and the two sixth with Lizzy, and the _Boulanger_--"

"If he had had any compassion for _me_," cried her husband impatiently,
"he would not have danced half so much!
for she only came, I suppose, to tell us the Collinses were
well.
The carriage was sent to
meet them at ----, and they were to return in it by dinner-time.
I assure you that I have long been most heartily ashamed of it."
She
concluded with many good wishes that Lady Lucas might soon be equally
fortunate, though evidently and triumphantly believing there was no
chance of it.
His resentment was in proportion to the distress of
his circumstances--and he was doubtless as violent in his abuse of me
to others as in his reproaches to myself.
Darcy."
James's?"
If, as I conclude
will be the case, you send me full powers to act in your name throughout
the whole of this business, I will immediately give directions to
Haggerston for preparing a proper settlement.
If it be so, if I have been misled by such error to inflict
pain on her, your resentment has not been unreasonable.
"He made a little mistake to be sure; but it is to the credit of his
modesty."
In vain did Elizabeth endeavour to check the rapidity of her mother's
words, or persuade her to describe her felicity in a less audible
whisper; for, to her inexpressible vexation, she could perceive that the
chief of it was overheard by Mr. Darcy, who sat opposite to them.
"I am far from attributing any part of Mr. Bingley's conduct to design,"
said Elizabeth; "but without scheming to do wrong, or to make others
unhappy, there may be error, and there may be misery.
As for my fair cousins, though
my absence may not be long enough to render it necessary, I shall now
take the liberty of wishing them health and happiness, not excepting my
cousin Elizabeth."
But you do not know _all_.
So near
a vicinity to her mother and Meryton relations was not desirable even to
_his_ easy temper, or _her_ affectionate heart.
With a glance, she saw
that he had lost none of his recent civility; and, to imitate his
politeness, she began, as they met, to admire the beauty of the place;
but she had not got beyond the words "delightful," and "charming," when
some unlucky recollections obtruded, and she fancied that praise of
Pemberley from her might be mischievously construed.
He
had always intended to visit him, though to the last always assuring
his wife that he should not go; and till the evening after the visit was
paid she had no knowledge of it.
Charles, when you build _your_ house, I wish it may be
half as delightful as Pemberley."
"Wickham is not so undeserving, then, as we thought him," said her
sister.
The latter was
thinking only of his breakfast.
Do not you know
that Mr. Collins wants to marry Lizzy?"
His own father did not long
survive mine, and within half a year from these events, Mr. Wickham
wrote to inform me that, having finally resolved against taking orders,
he hoped I should not think it unreasonable for him to expect some more
immediate pecuniary advantage, in lieu of the preferment, by which he
could not be benefited.
Long before it had taken place my opinion of you was
decided.
we talked and laughed so loud, that
anybody might have heard us ten miles off!"
On the following morning he hastened to Rosings to pay his
respects.
Nothing could
console and nothing could appease her.
Such a countenance, such manners!
"Well, mamma," said she, when they were all returned to the breakfast
room, "and what do you think of my husband?
Don't think me angry,
however, for I only mean to let you know that I had not imagined such
inquiries to be necessary on _your_ side.
It was a
comfort to Elizabeth to consider that Jane could not have been wearied
by long expectations.
Well!
"Ah!
Had Colonel Forster seen Denny himself?"
My father and mother knew nothing of that; they only felt how
imprudent a match it must be.
Such
doings discomposed Mr. Bennet exceedingly.
This she would not hear of; but she was not so
unwilling to comply with their brother's proposal; and it was settled
that Mr. Jones should be sent for early in the morning, if Miss Bennet
were not decidedly better.
Pemberley was now Georgiana's home; and the attachment of the sisters
was exactly what Darcy had hoped to see.
"And did Colonel Forster appear to think well of Wickham himself?
"You expect me to account for opinions which you choose to call mine,
but which I have never acknowledged.
"Take whatever you like, and get away."
"I am by no means of the opinion, I assure you," said he, "that a ball
of this kind, given by a young man of character, to respectable people,
can have any evil tendency; and I am so far from objecting to dancing
myself, that I shall hope to be honoured with the hands of all my fair
cousins in the course of the evening; and I take this opportunity of
soliciting yours, Miss Elizabeth, for the two first dances especially,
a preference which I trust my cousin Jane will attribute to the right
cause, and not to any disrespect for her."
If he could anyhow
discover at what house the coachman had before set down his fare, he
determined to make inquiries there, and hoped it might not be impossible
to find out the stand and number of the coach.
Is nothing due to me on that
score?
They repulsed
every attempt of Mrs. Bennet at conversation, and by so doing threw a
languor over the whole party, which was very little relieved by the
long speeches of Mr. Collins, who was complimenting Mr. Bingley and his
sisters on the elegance of their entertainment, and the hospitality and
politeness which had marked their behaviour to their guests.
I
am sure my sisters must all envy me.
Jane pictured to herself a happy evening in the
society of her two friends, and the attentions of her brother; and
Elizabeth thought with pleasure of dancing a great deal with Mr.
Wickham, and of seeing a confirmation of everything in Mr. Darcy's look
and behaviour.
"Colonel Forster did own that he had often suspected some partiality,
especially on Lydia's side, but nothing to give him any alarm.
It mortifies me.
In what a disgraceful light
might it not strike so vain a man!
When they sat down to
supper, therefore, she considered it a most unlucky perverseness which
placed them within one of each other; and deeply was she vexed to find
that her mother was talking to that one person (Lady Lucas) freely,
openly, and of nothing else but her expectation that Jane would soon
be married to Mr. Bingley.
"Why did not you all learn?
She was sure they should be married some time or
other, and it did not much signify when.
At length, however, Mrs. Bennet had no more to say; and Lady Lucas, who
had been long yawning at the repetition of delights which she saw no
likelihood of sharing, was left to the comforts of cold ham and
chicken.
"It is no such thing.
But, if I were you, I would stand by the nephew.
But it has been the study
of my life to avoid those weaknesses which often expose a strong
understanding to ridicule."
do anything rather than
marry without affection.
"This is delightful indeed!
You showed me how insufficient were all my pretensions to please a woman
worthy of being pleased."
They had not long separated, when Miss Bingley came towards her, and
with an expression of civil disdain accosted her:

"So, Miss Eliza, I hear you are quite delighted with George Wickham!
Sir William Lucas, and his daughter Maria, a
good-humoured girl, but as empty-headed as himself, had nothing to say
that could be worth hearing, and were listened to with about as much
delight as the rattle of the chaise.
Darcy made no answer, and seemed desirous of changing the subject.
He had not been long seated
before he complimented Mrs. Bennet on having so fine a family of
daughters; said he had heard much of their beauty, but that in this
instance fame had fallen short of the truth; and added, that he did
not doubt her seeing them all in due time disposed of in marriage.
But such as they were, it may well be supposed how eagerly
she went through them, and what a contrariety of emotion they excited.
In short,
I will do my best."
"Oh, Jane, had we been less secret, had we told what we knew of him,
this could not have happened!"
With such rivals for the notice of the fair as Mr. Wickham and the
officers, Mr. Collins seemed to sink into insignificance; to the young
ladies he certainly was nothing; but he had still at intervals a kind
listener in Mrs. Phillips, and was by her watchfulness, most abundantly
supplied with coffee and muffin.
You are so strange!
Miss Bingley, I am sure, cannot.
The feelings which, you tell me, have long prevented
the acknowledgment of your regard, can have little difficulty in
overcoming it after this explanation."
I am particularly unlucky
in meeting with a person so able to expose my real character, in a part
of the world where I had hoped to pass myself off with some degree of
credit.
Let them triumph over us at a distance, and be satisfied."
But the horror of what might possibly happen
almost took from me my faculties."
I hope you will
drink to our good journey.
said Jane as she
finished it.
Elizabeth was determined; nor did Sir William at
all shake her purpose by his attempt at persuasion.
She wanted to talk, but
there seemed to be an embargo on every subject.
Send back your answer as
fast as you can, and be careful to write explicitly.
Mr. Bennet had very often wished before this period of his life that,
instead of spending his whole income, he had laid by an annual sum for
the better provision of his children, and of his wife, if she survived
him.
If your abhorrence of _me_
should make _my_ assertions valueless, you cannot be prevented by
the same cause from confiding in my cousin; and that there may be
the possibility of consulting him, I shall endeavour to find some
opportunity of putting this letter in your hands in the course of the
morning.
I hope I never ridicule what is wise and good.
Pray read on."
The whole of what Elizabeth had already
heard, his claims on Mr. Darcy, and all that he had suffered from him,
was now openly acknowledged and publicly canvassed; and everybody was
pleased to know how much they had always disliked Mr. Darcy before they
had known anything of the matter.
"Aye, so it is," cried her mother, "and Mrs. Long does not come back
till the day before; so it will be impossible for her to introduce him,
for she will not know him herself."
Sir William could not have
interrupted two people in the room who had less to say for themselves.
But, perhaps, Mr. Bingley did
not take the house so much for the convenience of the neighbourhood as
for his own, and we must expect him to keep it or quit it on the same
principle."
She really
looked almost wild."
"I see your design, Bingley," said his friend.
But as to your
other objection, I am afraid it will hardly hold good.
"You quite mistook Mr. Darcy.
He was silent.
But in such cases as
these, a good memory is unpardonable.
As all
conversation was thereby at an end, Elizabeth soon afterwards left the
room.
She could not help frequently
glancing her eye at Mr. Darcy, though every glance convinced her of what
she dreaded; for though he was not always looking at her mother, she was
convinced that his attention was invariably fixed by her.
Mrs. Bennet invited him to dine with them; but, with many
expressions of concern, he confessed himself engaged elsewhere.
As soon as they entered, Bingley looked at her so expressively, and
shook hands with such warmth, as left no doubt of his good information;
and he soon afterwards said aloud, "Mrs. Bennet, have you no more lanes
hereabouts in which Lizzy may lose her way again to-day?"
For such an attachment
as this she might have sufficient charms; and though she did not suppose
Lydia to be deliberately engaging in an elopement without the intention
of marriage, she had no difficulty in believing that neither her virtue
nor her understanding would preserve her from falling an easy prey.
And her neighbours
at Lucas Lodge, therefore (for through their communication with the
Collinses, the report, she concluded, had reached Lady Catherine), had
only set that down as almost certain and immediate, which she had looked
forward to as possible at some future time.
Many stared--many
smiled; but no one looked more amused than Mr. Bennet himself, while his
wife seriously commended Mr. Collins for having spoken so sensibly,
and observed in a half-whisper to Lady Lucas, that he was a remarkably
clever, good kind of young man.
I was so afraid, you know, that something would happen to
put it off, and then I should have gone quite distracted.
I would not trust you so near it as Eastbourne
for fifty pounds!
The dinner was exceedingly handsome, and there were all the servants and
all the articles of plate which Mr. Collins had promised; and, as he had
likewise foretold, he took his seat at the bottom of the table, by her
ladyship's desire, and looked as if he felt that life could furnish
nothing greater.
"And do you impute it to either of those?"
We will go round the Park every day.
May I ask
whether these pleasing attentions proceed from the impulse of the
moment, or are the result of previous study?"
Five daughters
successively entered the world, but yet the son was to come; and Mrs.
Bennet, for many years after Lydia's birth, had been certain that he
would.
In this perturbed state of mind, with thoughts that could rest on
nothing, she walked on; but it would not do; in half a minute the letter
was unfolded again, and collecting herself as well as she could, she
again began the mortifying perusal of all that related to Wickham, and
commanded herself so far as to examine the meaning of every sentence.
I hope I never ridicule what is wise and good.
Their society can afford no pleasure
that will atone for such wretchedness as this!
I was ready to die of laughter.
"This is not to be borne.
Mr. Darcy felt their rudeness,
and immediately said:

"This walk is not wide enough for our party.
"You must be surprised,
very much surprised--so lately as Mr. Collins was wishing to marry
you.
The day passed most pleasantly away; the morning in bustle and
shopping, and the evening at one of the theatres.
"I am grieved indeed," cried Darcy; "grieved--shocked.
Had they been only ten minutes
sooner, they should have been beyond the reach of his discrimination;
for it was plain that he was that moment arrived--that moment alighted
from his horse or his carriage.
"My dear, do not give way to such gloomy thoughts.
Mrs. Bennet was privileged to whisper it to Mrs. Phillips,
and she ventured, without any permission, to do the same by all her
neighbours in Meryton.
She was more alive to the disgrace which her want of new
clothes must reflect on her daughter's nuptials, than to any sense of
shame at her eloping and living with Wickham a fortnight before they
took place.
More thoughtfulness and less anxiety to please, than when
they last met, were plainly expressed.
Her feelings as she read were scarcely to be defined.
I wonder he does not marry, to secure a
lasting convenience of that kind.
What I have to say relates to poor Lydia.
She danced next with an officer, and had the refreshment of talking of
Wickham, and of hearing that he was universally liked.
This was his plan of amends--of atonement--for inheriting their father's
estate; and he thought it an excellent one, full of eligibility and
suitableness, and excessively generous and disinterested on his own
part.
I
really cannot _laugh_ at it.
When the engagement was for home, some of the officers always
made part of it--of which officers Mr. Wickham was sure to be one; and
on these occasions, Mrs. Gardiner, rendered suspicious by Elizabeth's
warm commendation, narrowly observed them both.
Not that I have much pleasure, indeed, in talking
to anybody.
"I should like balls infinitely better," she replied, "if they were
carried on in a different manner; but there is something insufferably
tedious in the usual process of such a meeting.
"Mr. Darcy was punctual in his return, and as Lydia informed you,
attended the wedding.
And poor Mr. Darcy!
I hope she will turn out well."
From an unwillingness to confess how much her intimacy with Mr. Darcy
had been over-rated, Elizabeth had never yet answered Mrs. Gardiner's
long letter; but now, having _that_ to communicate which she knew would
be most welcome, she was almost ashamed to find that her uncle and
aunt had already lost three days of happiness, and immediately wrote as
follows:

"I would have thanked you before, my dear aunt, as I ought to have done,
for your long, kind, satisfactory, detail of particulars; but to say the
truth, I was too cross to write.
With all these circumstances to
favour an attachment, and nothing to prevent it, am I wrong, my dearest
Jane, in indulging the hope of an event which will secure the happiness
of so many?"
Most earnestly did she then entreaty him to lose no more time before he
wrote.
She will
be married!
You do not look
well.
He begged to know further particulars of what he
was indebted to his brother, but was too angry with Lydia to send any
message to her.
Elizabeth, however, did not choose
to take the hint, being well aware that a serious dispute must be the
consequence of any reply.
Jane looked a little
paler than usual, but more sedate than Elizabeth had expected.
He was full of joy and
attention.
I am very glad you
have somebody who thinks of these things.
Mr. Wickham's happiness and her own were perforce
delayed a little longer, and Mr. Collins's proposal accepted with as
good a grace as she could.
cried
Jane.
It was the favourite wish of
_his_ mother, as well as of hers.
"Elizabeth Bennet," said Miss Bingley, when the door was closed on her,
"is one of those young ladies who seek to recommend themselves to the
other sex by undervaluing their own; and with many men, I dare say, it
succeeds.
The idea of his returning no more Elizabeth treated with the utmost
contempt.
She longed to know what at the moment was passing in his mind--in
what manner he thought of her, and whether, in defiance of everything,
she was still dear to him.
Jane's is nothing to it--nothing at all.
"I certainly shall not.
I want to talk very seriously.
Elizabeth, still more affected, was earnest and solemn in her reply; and
at length, by repeated assurances that Mr. Darcy was really the object
of her choice, by explaining the gradual change which her estimation of
him had undergone, relating her absolute certainty that his affection
was not the work of a day, but had stood the test of many months'
suspense, and enumerating with energy all his good qualities, she did
conquer her father's incredulity, and reconcile him to the match.
"Neither duty, nor honour, nor gratitude," replied Elizabeth, "have any
possible claim on me, in the present instance.
"It is a compliment which I never pay to any place if I can avoid it."
But she is perfectly amiable, and often condescends
to drive by my humble abode in her little phaeton and ponies."
Their lodgings were not long a
secret, and at length they began to know the officers themselves.
The communication excited many professions of concern; and enough was
said of wishing them to stay at least till the following day to work
on Jane; and till the morrow their going was deferred.
Instead of receiving any such letter of excuse from his friend, as
Elizabeth half expected Mr. Bingley to do, he was able to bring Darcy
with him to Longbourn before many days had passed after Lady Catherine's
visit.
Colonel Forster came yesterday, having left Brighton the
day before, not many hours after the express.
There is no knowing how estates
will go when once they come to be entailed."
"Very true, indeed; and now, my dear Jane, what have you got to say on
behalf of the interested people who have probably been concerned in the
business?
Lydia gaped as he opened the
volume, and before he had, with very monotonous solemnity, read three
pages, she interrupted him with:

"Do you know, mamma, that my uncle Phillips talks of turning away
Richard; and if he does, Colonel Forster will hire him.
There was neither in figure nor face any
likeness between the ladies.
But he is an ugly fellow!
"What you ask," said Elizabeth, "is no sacrifice on my side; and Mr.
Darcy had much better finish his letter."
I
am the happiest creature in the world.
Of what he has _particularly_ accused me I
am ignorant; but of the truth of what I shall relate, I can summon more
than one witness of undoubted veracity.
"Did you go by the village of Kympton?"
Let me mend it for you.
The steady countenance which Miss Lucas had commanded in telling her
story, gave way to a momentary confusion here on receiving so direct a
reproach; though, as it was no more than she expected, she soon regained
her composure, and calmly replied:

"Why should you be surprised, my dear Eliza?
"When I consider," she added in a yet
more agitated voice, "that I might have prevented it!
At
present I have not room to do them justice."
Elizabeth soon heard from her friend; and their
correspondence was as regular and frequent as it had ever been; that
it should be equally unreserved was impossible.
At length Darcy spoke, and in a
constrained manner said, "Mr. Wickham is blessed with such happy manners
as may ensure his _making_ friends--whether he may be equally capable of
_retaining_ them, is less certain."
Not yet, however, in spite of her disappointment in her husband, did
Mrs. Bennet give up the point.
How was that possible?
And when we _do_ return, it shall not be like other
travellers, without being able to give one accurate idea of anything.
"If you mean Darcy," cried her brother, "he may go to bed, if he
chooses, before it begins--but as for the ball, it is quite a settled
thing; and as soon as Nicholls has made white soup enough, I shall send
round my cards."
You
were not by, when I told mamma and the others all about it.
"Perhaps that is not possible for anyone.
I do not know who is
good enough for him."
These are conditions
which, considering everything, I had no hesitation in complying with,
as far as I thought myself privileged, for you.
Collins."
you have had every care and anxiety
upon yourself alone."
Let me take it in
the best light, in the light in which it may be understood."
The girls stared at their father.
Nor did that day wear out her
resentment.
sir, I do indeed.
"Upon my word, I cannot exactly explain the matter; Darcy must speak for
himself."
"We have dined nine times at Rosings, besides drinking tea there twice!
"You may depend upon it, Madam," said Miss Bingley, with cold civility,
"that Miss Bennet will receive every possible attention while she
remains with us."
GARDINER."
His arrival was soon known at the Parsonage; for Mr. Collins was walking
the whole morning within view of the lodges opening into Hunsford Lane,
in order to have the earliest assurance of it, and after making his
bow as the carriage turned into the Park, hurried home with the great
intelligence.
"Kitty and I are going up stairs to sit in
my dressing-room."
How odious I should think them!"
We
know how little there is to tempt anyone to our humble abode.
"I see no occasion for that.
I must be in town
next Saturday."
"I would not wish to be hasty in censuring anyone; but I always speak
what I think."
"I think you said she was a widow, sir?
"And Lydia used to want to go to London," added Kitty.
Then the two third he danced with Miss King,
and the two fourth with Maria Lucas, and the two fifth with Jane again,
and the two sixth with Lizzy, and the _Boulanger_--"

"If he had had any compassion for _me_," cried her husband impatiently,
"he would not have danced half so much!
She had once or twice suggested to Elizabeth the possibility of his
being partial to her, but Elizabeth always laughed at the idea; and Mrs.
Collins did not think it right to press the subject, from the danger of
raising expectations which might only end in disappointment; for in her
opinion it admitted not of a doubt, that all her friend's dislike would
vanish, if she could suppose him to be in her power.
James's?"
After amusing himself some time with their curiosity, he thus explained:

"About a month ago I received this letter; and about a fortnight ago
I answered it, for I thought it a case of some delicacy, and requiring
early attention.
"This is a parade," he cried, "which does one good; it gives such an
elegance to misfortune!
On this subject, what can you have to
say?
"What would she have said?
"I do not know.
"Oh, yes.
In a few minutes, Mrs.
Bennet half-opened the door and called out:

"Lizzy, my dear, I want to speak with you."
He now wished it more than ever.
"Upon my word, I say no more _here_ than I might say in any house in
the neighbourhood, except Netherfield.
"I see your design, Bingley," said his friend.
"Your
cousin's conduct does not suit my feelings.
"My dear Lizzy, do not give way to such feelings as these.
It would look odd to be
entirely silent for half an hour together; and yet for the advantage of
_some_, conversation ought to be so arranged, as that they may have the
trouble of saying as little as possible."
Will you come and see me?"
"Oh!
Jane had been a week in town without either seeing or
hearing from Caroline.
"It was a subject which they could not mention before me."
cried Bingley.
"Perhaps he must, if he sees enough of her.
Let us hope, therefore, that her being
there may teach her her own insignificance.
Catherine and Lydia had information
for them of a different sort.
She had heard nothing of Lady
Catherine that spoke her awful from any extraordinary talents or
miraculous virtue, and the mere stateliness of money or rank she thought
she could witness without trepidation.
To be sure London was
rather thin, but, however, the Little Theatre was open.
Darcy had walked away to another part of the room.
It should not be said that the Miss Bennets could
not be at home half a day before they were in pursuit of the officers.
I hoped to find you
reasonable; but, depend upon it, I will carry my point."
This is my advice.
He had rather hoped that his wife's views on
the stranger would be disappointed; but he soon found out that he had a
different story to hear.
For the last week they had seen very little
of Lady Catherine or her daughter.
She felt it to be the
probable consequence of her allusions to Mr. Wickham, and rejoiced in
it.
Not a word passed
between the sisters concerning Bingley; but Elizabeth went to bed in
the happy belief that all must speedily be concluded, unless Mr. Darcy
returned within the stated time.
"My dear Mr. Bennet," said his lady to him one day, "have you heard that
Netherfield Park is let at last?"
She will be married at sixteen!
"I should never have said Mrs. Collins
was settled _near_ her family."
By all that I have
ever read, I am convinced that it is very common indeed; that human
nature is particularly prone to it, and that there are very few of us
who do not cherish a feeling of self-complacency on the score of some
quality or other, real or imaginary.
Must it be so?"
"Yes, always," she replied, without knowing what she said, for her
thoughts had wandered far from the subject, as soon afterwards appeared
by her suddenly exclaiming, "I remember hearing you once say, Mr. Darcy,
that you hardly ever forgave, that your resentment once created was
unappeasable.
"Yes, indeed," cried Mrs. Bennet, offended by his manner of mentioning
a country neighbourhood.
"What do you mean?"
"No," said Darcy, "I have made no such pretension.
Kitty owned that
she had rather stay at home.
Yet it did, and even a third.
An airing would do me a great deal of good, I am sure.
Your ladyship wants Mr. Darcy to marry
your daughter; but would my giving you the wished-for promise make their
marriage at all more probable?
"A man who has once been refused!
"Oh, yes!--if one could but go to Brighton!
Darcy said
nothing at all.
Your alliance will be a disgrace; your name will never even be mentioned
by any of us."
"There is also one other person in the party," he continued after a
pause, "who more particularly wishes to be known to you.
"Yes, indeed, his friends may well rejoice in his having met with one
of the very few sensible women who would have accepted him, or have made
him happy if they had.
In that case he would return no more.
can it be really so!
She was then but fifteen, which must be her
excuse; and after stating her imprudence, I am happy to add, that I owed
the knowledge of it to herself.
It was not to be supposed that any other
people could be meant than those with whom she was connected.
Having never even fancied herself
in love before, her regard had all the warmth of first attachment,
and, from her age and disposition, greater steadiness than most first
attachments often boast; and so fervently did she value his remembrance,
and prefer him to every other man, that all her good sense, and all her
attention to the feelings of her friends, were requisite to check the
indulgence of those regrets which must have been injurious to her own
health and their tranquillity.
Jane looked at her doubtingly.
Accept my thanks for
the compliment you are paying me.
The more I see
of the world, the more am I dissatisfied with it; and every day confirms
my belief of the inconsistency of all human characters, and of the
little dependence that can be placed on the appearance of merit or
sense.
The dinner too in its turn was highly admired; and
he begged to know to which of his fair cousins the excellency of its
cooking was owing.
Mrs. Bennet deigned not to make any reply, but, unable to contain
herself, began scolding one of her daughters.
Amongst the most violent against him was Mrs. Bennet, whose dislike of
his general behaviour was sharpened into particular resentment by his
having slighted one of her daughters.
It cannot last long.
But the spiritless condition which this event threw her into was shortly
relieved, and her mind opened again to the agitation of hope, by an
article of news which then began to be in circulation.
It is every way horrible!"
She would not betray her trust, I suppose, without bribery and
corruption, for she really did know where her friend was to be found.
I have not been at all able to account
for the honour of seeing you here."
What I have to say relates to poor Lydia.
Why does she not come in?"
During their walk, it was resolved that Mr. Bennet's consent should be
asked in the course of the evening.
We were
married, you know, at St. Clement's, because Wickham's lodgings were in
that parish.
The house, furniture, neighbourhood, and
roads, were all to her taste, and Lady Catherine's behaviour was most
friendly and obliging.
Mr. Darcy, with grave propriety, requested to be allowed the honour of
her hand, but in vain.
"How hard it is in some cases to be believed!"
If I could but see _you_ as happy!
Observing his second daughter employed in trimming a hat, he
suddenly addressed her with:

"I hope Mr. Bingley will like it, Lizzy."
In what imaginary act of friendship can you here defend yourself?
The gentlemen arrived early; and, before Mrs. Bennet had time
to tell him of their having seen his aunt, of which her daughter sat
in momentary dread, Bingley, who wanted to be alone with Jane, proposed
their all walking out.
Yes, I call it a _very_ easy distance."
"Well, well," said he, "do not make yourself unhappy.
"Oh!
They will then join his regiment,
unless they are first invited to Longbourn; and I understand from Mrs.
Gardiner, that my niece is very desirous of seeing you all before she
leaves the South.
She then sought her eldest sister, who has undertaken to make
inquiries on the same subject of Bingley.
It cannot be concealed from anyone.
"I cannot see that London has any great advantage over the country, for
my part, except the shops and public places.
She can have no
idea of the pain she gives me by her continual reflections on him.
Let me do it without further loss of time.
But if _we_ do not venture somebody else will; and after all,
Mrs. Long and her neices must stand their chance; and, therefore, as
she will think it an act of kindness, if you decline the office, I will
take it on myself."
It
was, on the contrary, exactly calculated to make her understand her own
wishes; and never had she so honestly felt that she could have loved
him, as now, when all love must be vain.
In anticipating the happiness
of Bingley, which of course was to be inferior only to his own, he
continued the conversation till they reached the house.
You know my mother's ideas as to the
necessity of constant company for her friends.
I shall
send for my clothes when I get to Longbourn; but I wish you would tell
Sally to mend a great slit in my worked muslin gown before they are
packed up.
They were all astonished; and Mr. Bennet, who could by no means wish for
so speedy a return, immediately said:

"But is there not danger of Lady Catherine's disapprobation here, my
good sir?
I thought we never
should have got into the coach.
The
liberty of communication cannot be mine till it has lost all its value!"
"Upon my word," said her ladyship, "you give your opinion very decidedly
for so young a person.
In the hall they
parted.
"You shall have it in a few words.
Neither Jane nor Elizabeth were comfortable on this subject.
cried Elizabeth.
"Something very much to the purpose of course.
He inquired how far
Netherfield was from Meryton; and, after receiving her answer, asked in
a hesitating manner how long Mr. Darcy had been staying there.
Mrs. Wickham!
Stupid men are the only ones
worth knowing, after all."
His
attachment to Rosings certainly increases."
"I am trying to make it out."
But, however, he
did not.
At least, you should not _remind_ your mother of inviting him."
I am going to-morrow
where I shall find a man who has not one agreeable quality, who has
neither manner nor sense to recommend him.
She perfectly remembered everything that had passed in conversation
between Wickham and herself, in their first evening at Mr. Phillips's.
I always had a value for him.
do not repeat what I then said.
The usual inquiries as to his success was
made by the latter.
The horses
were post; and neither the carriage, nor the livery of the servant who
preceded it, were familiar to them.
Mrs. Gardiner looked at her niece, desirous of knowing
how _she_, whom the invitation most concerned, felt disposed as to its
acceptance, but Elizabeth had turned away her head.
This part of his intelligence, though unheard by Lydia, was caught by
Elizabeth, and, as it assured her that Darcy was not less answerable for
Wickham's absence than if her first surmise had been just, every
feeling of displeasure against the former was so sharpened by immediate
disappointment, that she could hardly reply with tolerable civility to
the polite inquiries which he directly afterwards approached to make.
"You must know that
though I should be exceedingly grieved at their disapprobation, I could
not hesitate."
"How can you be smiling so,
Lizzy?"
"How so?
At least, therefore, I did not assume the character of needless
precipitance merely to show off before the ladies."
At length there was nothing more to be said; the ladies drove on, and
the others returned into the house.
"And we mean to treat you all," added Lydia, "but you must lend us the
money, for we have just spent ours at the shop out there."
Mrs. Reynolds informed them that it had been taken in his father's
lifetime.
Mrs. Bennet chose to consider it as given in
compliment to her eldest daughter, and was particularly flattered
by receiving the invitation from Mr. Bingley himself, instead of a
ceremonious card.
Oh!
"May I ask to what these questions tend?"
It was not all
settled before Monday: as soon as it was, the express was sent off to
Longbourn.
Her ladyship's carriage is regularly ordered for us.
"I mean, that no man in his senses would marry Lydia on so slight a
temptation as one hundred a year during my life, and fifty after I am
gone."
"But it is fortunate," thought she, "that I have something to wish for.
But I am at his disposal.
"Do you suppose them to be in London?"
Such
doings discomposed Mr. Bennet exceedingly.
"Oh!
The
wish of procuring her regard, which she had assured herself of his
feeling in Derbyshire, could not in rational expectation survive such a
blow as this.
I now give it to _you_, if you are resolved on
having him.
Miss Bingley offered her the carriage, and she only
wanted a little pressing to accept it, when Jane testified such concern
in parting with her, that Miss Bingley was obliged to convert the offer
of the chaise to an invitation to remain at Netherfield for the present.
Not a word, however, passed his lips in allusion to it, till their
visitor took his leave for the night; but as soon as he was gone, he
turned to his daughter, and said:

"Jane, I congratulate you.
"No--why should he?
But what does he say of the living?"
Mr. Bennet was so odd a mixture of quick parts, sarcastic humour,
reserve, and caprice, that the experience of three-and-twenty years had
been insufficient to make his wife understand his character.
"Yes, and I had heard it before.
And you are never to stir out of doors till you can prove that you have
spent ten minutes of every day in a rational manner."
And then
we were so merry all the way home!
They must be a great loss to _your_ family."
But not long was the interval of
tranquillity; for, when supper was over, singing was talked of, and
she had the mortification of seeing Mary, after very little entreaty,
preparing to oblige the company.
It was plain to them all that Colonel Fitzwilliam came because he
had pleasure in their society, a persuasion which of course recommended
him still more; and Elizabeth was reminded by her own satisfaction in
being with him, as well as by his evident admiration of her, of her
former favourite George Wickham; and though, in comparing them, she saw
there was less captivating softness in Colonel Fitzwilliam's manners,
she believed he might have the best informed mind.
But why Mr. Darcy came so often to the Parsonage, it was more difficult
to understand.
Elizabeth received her
congratulations amongst the rest, and then, sick of this folly, took
refuge in her own room, that she might think with freedom.
Could he, or the Lucases, have pitched on any man within
the circle of our acquaintance, whose name would have given the lie
more effectually to what they related?
My dear, dear
Lydia!
She is the most beautiful creature I ever beheld!
He had followed them purposely to town, he had taken on himself all
the trouble and mortification attendant on such a research; in which
supplication had been necessary to a woman whom he must abominate and
despise, and where he was reduced to meet, frequently meet, reason
with, persuade, and finally bribe, the man whom he always most wished to
avoid, and whose very name it was punishment to him to pronounce.
His attachment excited gratitude, his general character respect; but she
could not approve him; nor could she for a moment repent her refusal,
or feel the slightest inclination ever to see him again.
"No, not at all."
"We
can all plague and punish one another.
"That is not very likely; our authority was too good."
And pray, Lizzy, what said Lady Catherine
about this report?
"And this is your real opinion!
They were not welcomed home very cordially by their mother.
"Laugh as much as you choose, but you will not laugh me out of my
opinion.
Jane then took it from her pocket-book, and gave it to Elizabeth.
Such were the gentle murmurs of Mrs. Bennet, and
they gave way only to the greater distress of Mr. Bingley's continued
absence.
But, on second thoughts, perhaps,
Lizzy could tell us what relations he has now living, better than any
other person."
Mr.
Bingley's defense of his friend was a very able one, I dare say; but
since he is unacquainted with several parts of the story, and has learnt
the rest from that friend himself, I shall venture to still think of
both gentlemen as I did before."
Her aunt assured her that she was, and Elizabeth having thanked her for
the kindness of her hints, they parted; a wonderful instance of advice
being given on such a point, without being resented.
"My dear madam," replied he, "let us be for ever silent on this point.
"All this she must possess," added Darcy, "and to all this she must
yet add something more substantial, in the improvement of her mind by
extensive reading."
She did at last extort from her father an acknowledgment that the horses
were engaged.
She looked at his two sisters, and saw them making signs
of derision at each other, and at Darcy, who continued, however,
imperturbably grave.
I think it would
not be very likely to promote sisterly affection or delicacy of mind."
I know we dine with four-and-twenty families."
I cannot find
out that I hate her at all, or that I am in the least unwilling to
think her a very good sort of girl.
On the
gentlemen's appearing, her colour increased; yet she received them with
tolerable ease, and with a propriety of behaviour equally free from any
symptom of resentment or any unnecessary complaisance.
But however insincere _you_ may
choose to be, you shall not find _me_ so.
I did for you.
Mr. Darcy!
But the person who advanced was now
near enough to see her, and stepping forward with eagerness, pronounced
her name.
Mr.
"But, my dear, your father cannot spare the horses, I am sure.
"Oh!
"It did.
"Wickham is not so undeserving, then, as we thought him," said her
sister.
Her daughters were eagerly called to partake of her joy.
Had Elizabeth's opinion been all drawn from her own family, she could
not have formed a very pleasing opinion of conjugal felicity or domestic
comfort.
His circumstances, he assured
me, and I had no difficulty in believing it, were exceedingly bad.
Then the two third he danced with Miss King,
and the two fourth with Maria Lucas, and the two fifth with Jane again,
and the two sixth with Lizzy, and the _Boulanger_--"

"If he had had any compassion for _me_," cried her husband impatiently,
"he would not have danced half so much!
"No, she would go home.
It appeared to her merely the suggestion of Caroline's
interested wishes, and she could not for a moment suppose that those
wishes, however openly or artfully spoken, could influence a young man
so totally independent of everyone.
--and asked Elizabeth whether she could at all understand him?
I guessed as much."
Elizabeth here felt herself called on to say something in vindication of
his behaviour to Wickham; and therefore gave them to understand, in
as guarded a manner as she could, that by what she had heard from
his relations in Kent, his actions were capable of a very different
construction; and that his character was by no means so faulty, nor
Wickham's so amiable, as they had been considered in Hertfordshire.
Bingley met them with hopes
that Mrs. Bennet had not found Miss Bennet worse than she expected.
You
will easily comprehend, from these particulars, that Mr. Wickham's
circumstances are not so hopeless as they are generally believed to be.
You will not, I hope, consider me as showing any disrespect
to your family, my dear madam, by thus withdrawing my pretensions to
your daughter's favour, without having paid yourself and Mr. Bennet the
compliment of requesting you to interpose your authority in my
behalf.
Let _our_
first effusions be less insupportable than those of the generality of
travellers."
"Yes, yes, they must marry.
"Your attendance upon her has been too much for you.
forgive the question--are you quite certain that you can be
happy with him?"
He is so excessively
handsome!
"What will be his surprise," thought
she, "when he knows who they are?
The horses
were post; and neither the carriage, nor the livery of the servant who
preceded it, were familiar to them.
What a stroke was this for poor Jane!
If she
heard me, it was by good luck, for I am sure she did not listen.
Mr. Bingley arrived.
"Oh, yes!--of that kind of love which I suppose him to have felt.
Elizabeth was distressed.
Elizabeth made no answer, and walked on, her heart swelling with
indignation.
Will you tell me
how long you have loved him?"
You have liked many a
stupider person."
The idea of Mr. Collins, with all his solemn composure, being run away
with by his feelings, made Elizabeth so near laughing, that she could
not use the short pause he allowed in any attempt to stop him further,
and he continued:

"My reasons for marrying are, first, that I think it a right thing for
every clergyman in easy circumstances (like myself) to set the example
of matrimony in his parish; secondly, that I am convinced that it will
add very greatly to my happiness; and thirdly--which perhaps I ought
to have mentioned earlier, that it is the particular advice and
recommendation of the very noble lady whom I have the honour of calling
patroness.
Mrs. Bennet, we shall have her
at Netherfield at last.'
Mrs. Collins, did I tell you of Lady Metcalf's
calling yesterday to thank me?
If
I had known as much this morning I certainly would not have called
on him.
and turning round he looked for a moment at
Elizabeth, till catching her eye, he withdrew his own and coldly said:
"She is tolerable, but not handsome enough to tempt _me_; I am in no
humour at present to give consequence to young ladies who are slighted
by other men.
Mrs. Bennet and Kitty walked off, and as soon as
they were gone, Mr. Collins began.
But as Elizabeth could not receive comfort from any such expectation,
she made no answer.
Besides, there was truth in his
looks."
There are few people in England, I suppose, who have more true enjoyment
of music than myself, or a better natural taste.
Mr. Bingley was good-looking and gentlemanlike; he had a pleasant
countenance, and easy, unaffected manners.
Mr. Darcy looked a little ashamed of his aunt's ill-breeding, and made
no answer.
"But you are not entitled to know mine; nor will such behaviour as this,
ever induce me to be explicit."
With the Gardiners, they were always on the most intimate terms.
And one of my
own daughters.
To
this discovery succeeded some others equally mortifying.
"You mistake me, my dear.
But Mr. Bennet was not of
a disposition to seek comfort for the disappointment which his own
imprudence had brought on, in any of those pleasures which too often
console the unfortunate for their folly or their vice.
and her calling here was prodigiously
civil!
When the gentlemen had joined them, and tea was over, the card-tables
were placed.
Why must _she_ be scampering about the
country, because her sister had a cold?
I must be in town
next Saturday."
"I should not mind anything at all."
Mr. Darcy handed the
ladies into the carriage; and when it drove off, Elizabeth saw him
walking slowly towards the house.
What he told me was merely this: that he congratulated himself
on having lately saved a friend from the inconveniences of a most
imprudent marriage, but without mentioning names or any other
particulars, and I only suspected it to be Bingley from believing
him the kind of young man to get into a scrape of that sort, and from
knowing them to have been together the whole of last summer."
She was disappointed, and angry
with herself for being so.
"I advise Mr. Darcy, and Lizzy, and Kitty," said Mrs. Bennet, "to walk
to Oakham Mount this morning.
what was the name of its
proprietor?
She rated his abilities much higher than any of the others; there was
a solidity in his reflections which often struck her, and though by no
means so clever as herself, she thought that if encouraged to read
and improve himself by such an example as hers, he might become a very
agreeable companion.
Very
frequently were they reproached for this insensibility by Kitty and
Lydia, whose own misery was extreme, and who could not comprehend such
hard-heartedness in any of the family.
She read with an eagerness which hardly
left her power of comprehension, and from impatience of knowing what the
next sentence might bring, was incapable of attending to the sense of
the one before her eyes.
"Very much."
"I admire all my three sons-in-law highly," said he.
In a doleful voice Mrs. Bennet began the projected
conversation: "Oh!
He made her an offer in this very room,
and she refused him.
"I can answer your question," said Fitzwilliam, "without applying to
him.
The separation
between her and her family was rather noisy than pathetic.
GARDINER."
But it
is always so.
or had you intended any more serious consequence?"
Sir William had been
delighted with him.
And what sort of table do they keep?
Mrs. Gardiner and her niece,
however, did her justice, and pitied her.
About a year ago, she was taken from school, and an establishment formed
for her in London; and last summer she went with the lady who presided
over it, to Ramsgate; and thither also went Mr. Wickham, undoubtedly by
design; for there proved to have been a prior acquaintance between him
and Mrs. Younge, in whose character we were most unhappily deceived; and
by her connivance and aid, he so far recommended himself to Georgiana,
whose affectionate heart retained a strong impression of his kindness to
her as a child, that she was persuaded to believe herself in love, and
to consent to an elopement.
I am particularly unlucky
in meeting with a person so able to expose my real character, in a part
of the world where I had hoped to pass myself off with some degree of
credit.
to Miss Lydia Bennet,' without there being a
syllable said of her father, or the place where she lived, or anything.
Elizabeth passed the chief of the night in her sister's room, and in the
morning had the pleasure of being able to send a tolerable answer to the
inquiries which she very early received from Mr. Bingley by a housemaid,
and some time afterwards from the two elegant ladies who waited on his
sisters.
After welcoming their sisters, they triumphantly displayed a table set
out with such cold meat as an inn larder usually affords, exclaiming,
"Is not this nice?
Elizabeth, for the sake of
saying something that might turn her mother's thoughts, now asked her if
Charlotte Lucas had been at Longbourn since _her_ coming away.
Elizabeth found the interest of the subject increase, and listened with
all her heart; but the delicacy of it prevented further inquiry.
She felt that she had no business at
Pemberley, and was obliged to assume a disinclination for seeing it.
Though Darcy could never receive _him_ at Pemberley, yet, for
Elizabeth's sake, he assisted him further in his profession.
I had narrowly observed her during the two visits
which I had lately made here; and I was convinced of her affection."
I
told him of all that had occurred to make my former interference in his
affairs absurd and impertinent.
cried Elizabeth.
It was an earnest, steadfast gaze, but she often
doubted whether there were much admiration in it, and sometimes it
seemed nothing but absence of mind.
She dared not relate the other
half of Mr. Darcy's letter, nor explain to her sister how sincerely she
had been valued by her friend.
I
am sure my sisters must all envy me.
"This is a wretched beginning indeed!
Her aunt asked her, smilingly, how she liked it.
Never in her life had she seen his manners so little dignified, never
had he spoken with such gentleness as on this unexpected meeting.
You do not make allowance enough for difference
of situation and temper.
Mr. Collins readily
assented, and a book was produced; but, on beholding it (for everything
announced it to be from a circulating library), he started back, and
begging pardon, protested that he never read novels.
Lady Catherine's great attentions to Mrs. Collins you
have been a daily witness of; and altogether I trust it does not appear
that your friend has drawn an unfortunate--but on this point it will be
as well to be silent.
I cannot forget the follies and vices of others
so soon as I ought, nor their offenses against myself.
For your
sake," turning to Charlotte, "I am glad of it; but otherwise I see no
occasion for entailing estates from the female line.
His anxiety for Jane was evident, and his
attentions to herself most pleasing, and they prevented her feeling
herself so much an intruder as she believed she was considered by the
others.
The apothecary came, and having
examined his patient, said, as might be supposed, that she had caught
a violent cold, and that they must endeavour to get the better of it;
advised her to return to bed, and promised her some draughts.
Elizabeth was so much caught with what passed, as to leave her very
little attention for her book; and soon laying it wholly aside, she drew
near the card-table, and stationed herself between Mr. Bingley and his
eldest sister, to observe the game.
But who could have foreseen such an attention as this?
She immediately felt
that whatever desire Miss Darcy might have of being acquainted with her
must be the work of her brother, and, without looking farther, it was
satisfactory; it was gratifying to know that his resentment had not made
him think really ill of her.
But at least it shows that _she_ was serious on the subject of their
journey.
And her neighbours
at Lucas Lodge, therefore (for through their communication with the
Collinses, the report, she concluded, had reached Lady Catherine), had
only set that down as almost certain and immediate, which she had looked
forward to as possible at some future time.
She looked at his two sisters, and saw them making signs
of derision at each other, and at Darcy, who continued, however,
imperturbably grave.
What can he mean by being so tiresome as to be always
coming here?
They
had often attempted to do it before, but it was a subject on which
Mrs. Bennet was beyond the reach of reason, and she continued to rail
bitterly against the cruelty of settling an estate away from a family of
five daughters, in favour of a man whom nobody cared anything about.
She paused, and saw with no slight indignation that he was listening
with an air which proved him wholly unmoved by any feeling of remorse.
"Oh!"
"Have you anything else to propose for my domestic felicity?"
Miss Darcy, on her brother's
entrance, exerted herself much more to talk, and Elizabeth saw that he
was anxious for his sister and herself to get acquainted, and forwarded
as much as possible, every attempt at conversation on either side.
Twice has she condescended to give me her opinion (unasked
too!)
In the gallery there were many family portraits, but they could have
little to fix the attention of a stranger.
Have all her friends left her?"
As all
conversation was thereby at an end, Elizabeth soon afterwards left the
room.
But she
had chosen it with her eyes open; and though evidently regretting that
her visitors were to go, she did not seem to ask for compassion.
His daughter's request, for such it might be considered, of being
admitted into her family again before she set off for the North,
received at first an absolute negative.
"I should imagine not."
"While I can have my mornings to myself," said she, "it is enough--I
think it is no sacrifice to join occasionally in evening engagements.
I expected
you to stay two months.
"Dearest Jane!
This Mrs. Younge was, he knew, intimately acquainted with
Wickham; and he went to her for intelligence of him as soon as he got to
town.
I am sure he will be vastly happy to oblige you, and
will save all the best of the covies for you."
Bingley
was sure of being liked wherever he appeared, Darcy was continually
giving offense.
They are
wanted in the farm, Mr. Bennet, are they not?"
The good news spread quickly through the house, and with proportionate
speed through the neighbourhood.
Their society can afford no pleasure
that will atone for such wretchedness as this!
Elizabeth, on her side, had much to do.
"When you have killed all your own birds, Mr. Bingley," said her mother,
"I beg you will come here, and shoot as many as you please on Mr.
Bennet's manor.
It was a journey of only twenty-four miles, and they began it so early
as to be in Gracechurch Street by noon.
His most particular
friend, you see by Jane's account, was persuaded of his never intending
to marry her.
But, however this remonstrance
might have staggered or delayed his determination, I do not suppose
that it would ultimately have prevented the marriage, had it not been
seconded by the assurance that I hesitated not in giving, of your
sister's indifference.
If my vanity had taken
a musical turn, you would have been invaluable; but as it is, I would
really rather not sit down before those who must be in the habit of
hearing the very best performers."
The wedding took place; the bride and bridegroom set off for Kent from
the church door, and everybody had as much to say, or to hear, on
the subject as usual.
She respected, she esteemed, she was grateful to him,
she felt a real interest in his welfare; and she only wanted to know how
far she wished that welfare to depend upon herself, and how far it would
be for the happiness of both that she should employ the power, which her
fancy told her she still possessed, of bringing on her the renewal of
his addresses.
Neither could she deny the justice of his
description of Jane.
I understand that Mr. Collins has made
you an offer of marriage.
"Could Colonel Forster repeat the particulars of Lydia's note to his
wife?"
Girls, can I do
anything for you in Meryton?
Her tour to the Lakes
was now the object of her happiest thoughts; it was her best consolation
for all the uncomfortable hours which the discontentedness of her mother
and Kitty made inevitable; and could she have included Jane in the
scheme, every part of it would have been perfect.
"I have been most highly gratified indeed, my dear sir.
Do not wish me such an
evil."
Nothing could be more delightful!
If he fears me, why come hither?
Come, Kitty, I
want you up stairs."
"Your humility, Mr. Bingley," said Elizabeth, "must disarm reproof."
The feelings which, you tell me, have long prevented
the acknowledgment of your regard, can have little difficulty in
overcoming it after this explanation."
"It does seem, and it is most shocking indeed," replied Elizabeth, with
tears in her eyes, "that a sister's sense of decency and virtue in such
a point should admit of doubt.
I am
no stranger to the particulars of your youngest sister's infamous
elopement.
Mr. Collins had a compliment, and an allusion to throw in here, which
were kindly smiled on by the mother and daughter.
If I can
perceive her regard for him, he must be a simpleton, indeed, not to
discover it too."
Bingley expressed great pleasure in the certainty of seeing Elizabeth
again, having still a great deal to say to her, and many inquiries to
make after all their Hertfordshire friends.
You have widely mistaken my character, if
you think I can be worked on by such persuasions as these.
"On the evening before my going to London," said he, "I made a
confession to him, which I believe I ought to have made long ago.
To Mr. Bennet's
acknowledgments he briefly replied, with assurance of his eagerness to
promote the welfare of any of his family; and concluded with entreaties
that the subject might never be mentioned to him again.
But before she had been three minutes in her own room,
her mother followed her.
Do you play and sing, Miss
Bennet?"
Had she merely _dined_ with him, she might
only have discovered whether he had a good appetite; but you must
remember that four evenings have also been spent together--and four
evenings may do a great deal."
They seemed each of them to have the happiest memories in the
world.
What praise is more valuable than the praise
of an intelligent servant?
How wonderfully these sort of things occur!
She lost all concern for him in
finding herself thus selected as the object of such idle and frivolous
gallantry; and while she steadily repressed it, could not but feel the
reproof contained in his believing, that however long, and for whatever
cause, his attentions had been withdrawn, her vanity would be gratified,
and her preference secured at any time by their renewal.
"Take whatever you like, and get away."
Again his astonishment was obvious; and he looked at her with an
expression of mingled incredulity and mortification.
Mr. Darcy replied with great intrepidity:

"Miss Elizabeth Bennet."
she cried; "I, who have prided myself
on my discernment!
Elizabeth had scarcely time to disclaim all right to the compliment,
before their approach was announced by the door-bell, and shortly
afterwards the three gentlemen entered the room.
I have been a disappointed man, and
my spirits will not bear solitude.
"No more have I," said Mr. Bennet; "and I am glad to find that you do
not depend on her serving you."
All this was acknowledged to Mrs. Gardiner; and after relating the
circumstances, she thus went on: "I am now convinced, my dear aunt, that
I have never been much in love; for had I really experienced that pure
and elevating passion, I should at present detest his very name, and
wish him all manner of evil.
As it was certain, however, that
somebody was coming, Bingley instantly prevailed on Miss Bennet to avoid
the confinement of such an intrusion, and walk away with him into the
shrubbery.
Tell him I hope he will excuse me when he knows all; and tell him I will
dance with him at the next ball we meet, with great pleasure.
At present, however, I consider myself as quite fixed here."
When coffee was over, Colonel Fitzwilliam reminded Elizabeth of having
promised to play to him; and she sat down directly to the instrument.
The situation of affairs in the Longbourn family could not be long a
secret.
Miss Bennet's lovely face
confirmed his views, and established all his strictest notions of what
was due to seniority; and for the first evening _she_ was his settled
choice.
Mrs. Bennet's eyes sparkled.
This was not very consoling to Mrs. Bennet, and therefore, instead of
making any answer, she went on as before.
How are you all?"
A
short pause followed this speech, and Mrs. Hurst began again:

"I have an excessive regard for Miss Jane Bennet, she is really a very
sweet girl, and I wish with all my heart she were well settled.
I assure
you, that if Darcy were not such a great tall fellow, in comparison with
myself, I should not pay him half so much deference.
Now was the
moment for her resolution to be executed, and, while her courage was
high, she immediately said:

"Mr. Darcy, I am a very selfish creature; and, for the sake of giving
relief to my own feelings, care not how much I may be wounding yours.
And with regard to the
resentment of his family, or the indignation of the world, if the former
_were_ excited by his marrying me, it would not give me one moment's
concern--and the world in general would have too much sense to join in
the scorn."
"What is there of good to be expected?"
She was proceeding
directly to her favourite walk, when the recollection of Mr. Darcy's
sometimes coming there stopped her, and instead of entering the park,
she turned up the lane, which led farther from the turnpike-road.
I always say that nothing is to be done in education without steady
and regular instruction, and nobody but a governess can give it.
Without supposing them,
from what she saw, to be very seriously in love, their preference
of each other was plain enough to make her a little uneasy; and
she resolved to speak to Elizabeth on the subject before she left
Hertfordshire, and represent to her the imprudence of encouraging such
an attachment.
To Caroline's
assertion of her brother's being partial to Miss Darcy she paid no
credit.
But in general and ordinary cases between friend and friend,
where one of them is desired by the other to change a resolution of no
very great moment, should you think ill of that person for complying
with the desire, without waiting to be argued into it?"
He was declared to be in debt
to every tradesman in the place, and his intrigues, all honoured with
the title of seduction, had been extended into every tradesman's family.
What congratulations will then
flow in!
With what delighted pride
she afterwards visited Mrs. Bingley, and talked of Mrs. Darcy, may
be guessed.
Anxious
and uneasy, the period which passed in the drawing-room, before the
gentlemen came, was wearisome and dull to a degree that almost made her
uncivil.
The first time of my ever seeing him in Hertfordshire, you must know,
was at a ball--and at this ball, what do you think he did?
It was a fortnight since Mrs. Bennet had been downstairs; but on this
happy day she again took her seat at the head of her table, and in
spirits oppressively high.
Elizabeth found that nothing was
beneath this great lady's attention, which could furnish her with an
occasion of dictating to others.
Her heart was divided between concern
for her sister, and resentment against all others.
Let us flatter ourselves that I may be the survivor."
You could not have started a more happy idea, since you
will not take comfort in mine.
During dinner, Mr. Bennet scarcely spoke at all; but when the servants
were withdrawn, he thought it time to have some conversation with his
guest, and therefore started a subject in which he expected him to
shine, by observing that he seemed very fortunate in his patroness.
Before Elizabeth had time for anything but a blush of surprise, Mrs.
Bennet answered instantly, "Oh dear!--yes--certainly.
what hours of transport
we shall spend!
After discharging
his conscience on that head, he proceeded to inform them, with many
rapturous expressions, of his happiness in having obtained the affection
of their amiable neighbour, Miss Lucas, and then explained that it was
merely with the view of enjoying her society that he had been so ready
to close with their kind wish of seeing him again at Longbourn, whither
he hoped to be able to return on Monday fortnight; for Lady Catherine,
he added, so heartily approved his marriage, that she wished it to take
place as soon as possible, which he trusted would be an unanswerable
argument with his amiable Charlotte to name an early day for making him
the happiest of men.
"How strange this is!
"Come here, child," cried her father as she appeared.
"I almost envy you the pleasure, and yet I believe it would be too much
for me, or else I could take it in my way to Newcastle.
Let me hear what it is."
She was
going to the butcher's, she told me, on purpose to order in some meat on
Wednesday, and she has got three couple of ducks just fit to be killed."
He begged to know further particulars of what he
was indebted to his brother, but was too angry with Lydia to send any
message to her.
Miss Bingley made no answer, and soon afterwards she got up and walked
about the room.
Jane shook her head.
But no
letter appeared, and she was completely puzzled.
His behaviour to her sister was such, during dinner time, as showed an
admiration of her, which, though more guarded than formerly, persuaded
Elizabeth, that if left wholly to himself, Jane's happiness, and his
own, would be speedily secured.
"Of what are you talking?"
They will have nothing else to
do."
Little more than half a day's
journey.
It was reasonable that he should feel he had been
wrong; he had liberality, and he had the means of exercising it; and
though she would not place herself as his principal inducement, she
could, perhaps, believe that remaining partiality for her might assist
his endeavours in a cause where her peace of mind must be materially
concerned.
Wickham of
course wanted more than he could get; but at length was reduced to be
reasonable.
Elizabeth again, and more
seriously assured her of its truth.
Lizzy, my dear, run down to your father, and ask him
how much he will give her.
Their visits to Mrs. Phillips were now productive of the most
interesting intelligence.
His own father did not long
survive mine, and within half a year from these events, Mr. Wickham
wrote to inform me that, having finally resolved against taking orders,
he hoped I should not think it unreasonable for him to expect some more
immediate pecuniary advantage, in lieu of the preferment, by which he
could not be benefited.
"Perhaps he must, if he sees enough of her.
Miss Darcy was tall, and on a larger scale than Elizabeth; and, though
little more than sixteen, her figure was formed, and her appearance
womanly and graceful.
"A great many indeed," said her companion with a sigh.
If it were not allowable for him to gain _my_
affections because I had no money, what occasion could there be for
making love to a girl whom he did not care about, and who was equally
poor?"
Perhaps there was some truth
in _this_; though I doubt whether _his_ reserve, or _anybody's_ reserve,
can be answerable for the event.
Daughters
are never of so much consequence to a father.
A few weeks, he believed.
And
Lady Lucas has been very kind; she walked here on Wednesday morning to
condole with us, and offered her services, or any of her daughters', if
they should be of use to us."
As for the gentleman himself, _his_ feelings were chiefly
expressed, not by embarrassment or dejection, or by trying to avoid her,
but by stiffness of manner and resentful silence.
A few days after this visit, Mr. Bingley called again, and alone.
They stood for some time without speaking a word; and she began to
imagine that their silence was to last through the two dances, and at
first was resolved not to break it; till suddenly fancying that it would
be the greater punishment to her partner to oblige him to talk, she made
some slight observation on the dance.
In town I believe he chiefly
lived, but his studying the law was a mere pretence, and being now free
from all restraint, his life was a life of idleness and dissipation.
And to be kept back on _such_ a motive!
"That is not very likely; our authority was too good."
"You used us abominably ill," answered Mrs. Hurst, "running away without
telling us that you were coming out."
It was Lady Catherine de Bourgh.
But it ended in
nothing, and I will not be sent on a fool's errand again."
How soon any other wishes
introduced themselves I can hardly tell, but I believe in about half an
hour after I had seen you."
We have not met since the 26th of
November, when we were all dancing together at Netherfield."
"Indeed, I could not.
But I think Mr. Darcy improves upon acquaintance."
With a stronger voice she soon added, "I have this comfort immediately,
that it has not been more than an error of fancy on my side, and that it
has done no harm to anyone but myself."
He was as much awake to the novelty of attention in that quarter as
Elizabeth herself could be, and unconsciously closed his book.
"Exceedingly well.
On his approaching them soon afterwards, though without seeming to have
any intention of speaking, Miss Lucas defied her friend to mention such
a subject to him; which immediately provoking Elizabeth to do it, she
turned to him and said:

"Did you not think, Mr. Darcy, that I expressed myself uncommonly
well just now, when I was teasing Colonel Forster to give us a ball at
Meryton?"
Mr.
Gardiner had waited only for the letters before he set off.
On his quitting the room she sat down, unable to support herself, and
looking so miserably ill, that it was impossible for Darcy to leave her,
or to refrain from saying, in a tone of gentleness and commiseration,
"Let me call your maid.
"She is a most charming young lady indeed.
But you are always giving _her_ the preference."
He shook his head.
If there had not been a Netherfield ball to prepare for and talk of, the
younger Miss Bennets would have been in a very pitiable state at this
time, for from the day of the invitation, to the day of the ball, there
was such a succession of rain as prevented their walking to Meryton
once.
But _now_ suppose as much as you choose; give a loose rein to your
fancy, indulge your imagination in every possible flight which the
subject will afford, and unless you believe me actually married, you
cannot greatly err.
These
bitter accusations might have been suppressed, had I, with greater
policy, concealed my struggles, and flattered you into the belief of
my being impelled by unqualified, unalloyed inclination; by reason, by
reflection, by everything.
"Your picture may be very exact, Louisa," said Bingley; "but this was
all lost upon me.
I know we dine with four-and-twenty families."
It is nearly fifty miles."
But this idea was soon banished, and her spirits were very differently
affected, when, to her utter amazement, she saw Mr. Darcy walk into the
room.
On being made acquainted with the present Mr. Darcy's
treatment of him, she tried to remember some of that gentleman's
reputed disposition when quite a lad which might agree with it, and
was confident at last that she recollected having heard Mr. Fitzwilliam
Darcy formerly spoken of as a very proud, ill-natured boy.
But I hope you will not mind it: it is
all for Jane's sake, you know; and there is no occasion for talking
to him, except just now and then.
To
this discovery succeeded some others equally mortifying.
There
is but one part of my conduct in the whole affair on which I do not
reflect with satisfaction; it is that I condescended to adopt the
measures of art so far as to conceal from him your sister's being in
town.
Mr. Bennet's expectations were fully answered.
Will you hear it?"
And you only the second.
She went on:

"From the very beginning--from the first moment, I may almost say--of
my acquaintance with you, your manners, impressing me with the fullest
belief of your arrogance, your conceit, and your selfish disdain of
the feelings of others, were such as to form the groundwork of
disapprobation on which succeeding events have built so immovable a
dislike; and I had not known you a month before I felt that you were the
last man in the world whom I could ever be prevailed on to marry."
Elizabeth related to Jane the next day what had passed between Mr.
Wickham and herself.
"In essentials, I believe, he is very much
what he ever was."
"But can you think that Lydia is so lost to everything but love of him
as to consent to live with him on any terms other than marriage?"
Mr.
Collins then returned to Elizabeth.
After tea, Mr. Bennet retired to the library, as was his
custom, and Mary went up stairs to her instrument.
You will never recommend yourself to his friend by
so doing!"
Her astonishment, however, was extreme, and
continually was she repeating, "Why is he so altered?
"This is a parade," he cried, "which does one good; it gives such an
elegance to misfortune!
That tall, proud man."
_You_ cannot have
been always at Longbourn."
Mr.
and Mrs. Gardiner had hurried back in alarm, supposing by the servant's
account that their niece was taken suddenly ill; but satisfying them
instantly on that head, she eagerly communicated the cause of their
summons, reading the two letters aloud, and dwelling on the postscript
of the last with trembling energy, though Lydia had never been a
favourite with them, Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner could not but be deeply
afflicted.
Elizabeth, as she affectionately embraced her, whilst tears filled the
eyes of both, lost not a moment in asking whether anything had been
heard of the fugitives.
Elizabeth could not help smiling at his easy manner of directing his
friend.
Mrs. Bennet, who fancied she had gained a complete
victory over him, continued her triumph.
"'Tis an etiquette I despise," said he.
She knew not what to think, or how to account
for it.
"If my children are silly, I must hope to be always sensible of it."
A day or two passed before Jane had courage to speak of her feelings to
Elizabeth; but at last, on Mrs. Bennet's leaving them together, after a
longer irritation than usual about Netherfield and its master, she could
not help saying:

"Oh, that my dear mother had more command over herself!
It was too early in the morning for visitors, and besides, the
equipage did not answer to that of any of their neighbours.
You must come and make
Lizzy marry Mr. Collins, for she vows she will not have him, and if you
do not make haste he will change his mind and not have _her_."
Caroline did not
return my visit till yesterday; and not a note, not a line, did I
receive in the meantime.
At present we have
nothing to guide us.
I think every thing has passed off uncommonly well,
I assure you.
You shall not, for the sake of one individual,
change the meaning of principle and integrity, nor endeavour to persuade
yourself or me, that selfishness is prudence, and insensibility of
danger security for happiness."
But at length, by Elizabeth's persuasion,
he was prevailed on to overlook the offence, and seek a reconciliation;
and, after a little further resistance on the part of his aunt, her
resentment gave way, either to her affection for him, or her curiosity
to see how his wife conducted herself; and she condescended to wait
on them at Pemberley, in spite of that pollution which its woods had
received, not merely from the presence of such a mistress, but the
visits of her uncle and aunt from the city.
If my vanity had taken
a musical turn, you would have been invaluable; but as it is, I would
really rather not sit down before those who must be in the habit of
hearing the very best performers."
You must come and make
Lizzy marry Mr. Collins, for she vows she will not have him, and if you
do not make haste he will change his mind and not have _her_."
Elizabeth looked at Darcy to see how cordially he assented to his
cousin's praise; but neither at that moment nor at any other could she
discern any symptom of love; and from the whole of his behaviour to Miss
de Bourgh she derived this comfort for Miss Bingley, that he might have
been just as likely to marry _her_, had she been his relation.
Jane should
therefore make the most of every half-hour in which she can command his
attention.
It seems an hopeless business."
She could not imagine what business he could have in town
so soon after his arrival in Hertfordshire; and she began to fear that
he might be always flying about from one place to another, and never
settled at Netherfield as he ought to be.
At length the chaise arrived, the trunks were fastened on, the parcels
placed within, and it was pronounced to be ready.
"They met again on Sunday, and then _I_ saw him too.
It is too long ago.
And who is there, whatever might be
their former conduct, that she would think capable of such an attempt,
till it were proved against them?
"You may depend upon it, Madam," said Miss Bingley, with cold civility,
"that Miss Bennet will receive every possible attention while she
remains with us."
"How can you be so silly," cried her mother, "as to think of such a
thing, in all this dirt!
"Because honour, decorum, prudence, nay, interest, forbid it.
Nothing could be more delightful!
Mrs. Bennet invited him to dine with them; but, with many
expressions of concern, he confessed himself engaged elsewhere.
"As much as I ever wish to be," cried Elizabeth very warmly.
It seems an hopeless business."
Unfortunately an only son (for many years an only child), I was spoilt
by my parents, who, though good themselves (my father, particularly, all
that was benevolent and amiable), allowed, encouraged, almost taught
me to be selfish and overbearing; to care for none beyond my own family
circle; to think meanly of all the rest of the world; to wish at least
to think meanly of their sense and worth compared with my own.
If, in the explanation of them, which
is due to myself, I am under the necessity of relating feelings which
may be offensive to yours, I can only say that I am sorry.
If it
be not so, let Mr. Darcy contradict it.
"You have no regard, then, for the honour and credit of my nephew!
The Netherfield
ladies would have had difficulty in believing that a man who lived
by trade, and within view of his own warehouses, could have been so
well-bred and agreeable.
And now do, when you get to town, find them out,
wherever they may be; and if they are not married already, _make_ them
marry.
It now occurred to the girls that their mother was in all likelihood
perfectly ignorant of what had happened.
She
is gone down to her uncle at Liverpool: gone to stay.
He did not
repeat his persuasion of their not marrying--and from _that_, I am
inclined to hope, he might have been misunderstood before."
"Yes, ma'am, all."
She stared, coloured,
doubted, and was silent.
She had
gained her point, and had time to consider of it.
"It is nothing in comparison of Rosings, my lady, I dare say; but I
assure you it is much larger than Sir William Lucas's."
"And of this place," thought she, "I might have been mistress!
Mr. Gardiner declared his
willingness, and Elizabeth was applied to for her approbation.
The vague and unsettled suspicions which uncertainty had
produced of what Mr. Darcy might have been doing to forward her sister's
match, which she had feared to encourage as an exertion of goodness too
great to be probable, and at the same time dreaded to be just, from the
pain of obligation, were proved beyond their greatest extent to be true!
But enough of this.
And even Mary could assure her family that she
had no disinclination for it.
"Yes," thought Elizabeth, "_that_ would be a delightful scheme indeed,
and completely do for us at once.
And when
the party entered the assembly room it consisted of only five
altogether--Mr. Bingley, his two sisters, the husband of the eldest, and
another young man.
I
hope he will overlook it.
"I am going
to open the instrument, Eliza, and you know what follows."
He had
done all this for a girl whom he could neither regard nor esteem.
"Had you then persuaded yourself that I should?"
For my part, I am determined never to speak
of it again to anybody.
I do assure you that my intimacy has
not yet taught me _that_.
She examined into their employments, looked at their work,
and advised them to do it differently; found fault with the arrangement
of the furniture; or detected the housemaid in negligence; and if she
accepted any refreshment, seemed to do it only for the sake of finding
out that Mrs. Collins's joints of meat were too large for her family.
But when she read and re-read with the closest attention, the
particulars immediately following of Wickham's resigning all pretensions
to the living, of his receiving in lieu so considerable a sum as three
thousand pounds, again was she forced to hesitate.
cried Elizabeth, when she had finished.
"Miss Bingley told me," said Jane, "that he never speaks much,
unless among his intimate acquaintances.
On entering the drawing-room she found the whole
party at loo, and was immediately invited to join them; but suspecting
them to be playing high she declined it, and making her sister the
excuse, said she would amuse herself for the short time she could stay
below, with a book.
He owns it
himself without disguise."
Mr. Wickham's society was of material service in dispelling the gloom
which the late perverse occurrences had thrown on many of the Longbourn
family.
Elizabeth's mind was now relieved from a very heavy weight; and, after
half an hour's quiet reflection in her own room, she was able to join
the others with tolerable composure.
Though her manner
varied, however, her determination never did.
You _are_ a gentleman's daughter.
My father was not only
fond of this young man's society, whose manners were always engaging; he
had also the highest opinion of him, and hoping the church would be
his profession, intended to provide for him in it.
On Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner's coming up they were all pressed to go
into the house and take some refreshment; but this was declined, and
they parted on each side with utmost politeness.
He looked serious, as usual; and,
she thought, more as he had been used to look in Hertfordshire, than as
she had seen him at Pemberley.
That he was _surprised_ by the
connection was evident; he sustained it, however, with fortitude, and
so far from going away, turned back with them, and entered into
conversation with Mr. Gardiner.
"I am almost afraid of asking what you thought of me, when we met at
Pemberley.
Mr.
Collins repeated his apologies in quitting the room, and was assured
with unwearying civility that they were perfectly needless.
"An excellent consolation in its way," said Elizabeth, "but it will not
do for _us_.
She shook her head.
If therefore she
actually persists in rejecting my suit, perhaps it were better not
to force her into accepting me, because if liable to such defects of
temper, she could not contribute much to my felicity."
It amazes
me, I confess; for, certainly, there can be nothing so advantageous to
them as instruction.
It is the greatest of favours
when Miss de Bourgh comes in."
Elizabeth disdained the appearance of noticing this civil reflection,
but its meaning did not escape, nor was it likely to conciliate her.
"It shows an affection for her sister that is very pleasing," said
Bingley.
But it has been the study
of my life to avoid those weaknesses which often expose a strong
understanding to ridicule."
I will not encourage the
impudence of either, by receiving them at Longbourn."
Jane then took it from her pocket-book, and gave it to Elizabeth.
What a contrast between him and his friend!
What a stroke was this for poor Jane!
Elizabeth answered only by a slight bow.
"What an excellent father you have, girls!"
Mrs. Bennet could certainly
spare you for another fortnight."
Pray, what is your age?"
When I am in company with him, I will not be wishing.
The five weeks which she had now passed in Kent had
made a great difference in the country, and every day was adding to the
verdure of the early trees.
"Oh, yes!--of that kind of love which I suppose him to have felt.
If there is
no other objection to my marrying your nephew, I shall certainly not
be kept from it by knowing that his mother and aunt wished him to
marry Miss de Bourgh.
It was absolutely
necessary, therefore, to think of something, and in this emergence
recollecting _when_ she had seen him last in Hertfordshire, and
feeling curious to know what he would say on the subject of their hasty
departure, she observed:

"How very suddenly you all quitted Netherfield last November, Mr. Darcy!
Charlotte is an
excellent manager, I dare say.
There were two nephews of Lady Catherine to require them, for
Mr. Darcy had brought with him a Colonel Fitzwilliam, the younger son of
his uncle Lord ----, and, to the great surprise of all the party, when
Mr. Collins returned, the gentlemen accompanied him.
"Oh!
His regiment is there; for I suppose you have
heard of his leaving the ----shire, and of his being gone into the
regulars.
That she should have walked three miles so early in the day, in such
dirty weather, and by herself, was almost incredible to Mrs. Hurst and
Miss Bingley; and Elizabeth was convinced that they held her in contempt
for it.
"I should never have considered the distance as one of the _advantages_
of the match," cried Elizabeth.
"Yes--_that_ is what makes it amusing.
She does not yet leave her dressing-room.
The astonishment of the ladies was just what he wished; that of Mrs.
Bennet perhaps surpassing the rest; though, when the first tumult of joy
was over, she began to declare that it was what she had expected all the
while.
cried Elizabeth, as soon as they
were by themselves.
In this danger
Kitty also is comprehended.
Their eyes were
immediately wandering up in the street in quest of the officers, and
nothing less than a very smart bonnet indeed, or a really new muslin in
a shop window, could recall them.
There is not a
finer county in England than Derbyshire."
"Exceedingly well.
His plan did not vary on seeing them.
accompanied by a violent yawn.
Wickham of
course wanted more than he could get; but at length was reduced to be
reasonable.
In what a disgraceful light
might it not strike so vain a man!
A small part of Derbyshire is all the present
concern.
But as it is, you
must not let your fancy run away with you.
You were disgusted with the women who were always speaking,
and looking, and thinking for _your_ approbation alone.
I rather expected, from my knowledge of her affability, that it
would happen.
"No really," replied Elizabeth; "I think there cannot be too little said
on the subject."
That will
make thirteen with ourselves, so there will be just room at table for
him."
She wished him
to know that she had been assured of his absence before she came to the
place, and accordingly began by observing, that his arrival had been
very unexpected--"for your housekeeper," she added, "informed us that
you would certainly not be here till to-morrow; and indeed, before we
left Bakewell, we understood that you were not immediately expected
in the country."
It is natural that obligation should
be felt, and if I could _feel_ gratitude, I would now thank you.
Let me then advise you, dear sir, to
console yourself as much as possible, to throw off your unworthy child
from your affection for ever, and leave her to reap the fruits of her
own heinous offense.
But will they make you happy?"
We passed each other
several times.
To Jane, he could be only a man whose proposals she had refused,
and whose merit she had undervalued; but to her own more extensive
information, he was the person to whom the whole family were indebted
for the first of benefits, and whom she regarded herself with an
interest, if not quite so tender, at least as reasonable and just as
what Jane felt for Bingley.
_You_ know him too well to doubt the rest.
Lady Catherine was extremely indignant on the marriage of her nephew;
and as she gave way to all the genuine frankness of her character in
her reply to the letter which announced its arrangement, she sent him
language so very abusive, especially of Elizabeth, that for some time
all intercourse was at an end.
He had never had
the slightest suspicion.
To fortune I am perfectly indifferent, and
shall make no demand of that nature on your father, since I am well
aware that it could not be complied with; and that one thousand pounds
in the four per cents, which will not be yours till after your mother's
decease, is all that you may ever be entitled to.
"I beg your pardon; one knows exactly what to think."
"That is a question which Mr. Darcy only can answer."
Since her
being at Lambton, she had heard that Miss Darcy was exceedingly proud;
but the observation of a very few minutes convinced her that she was
only exceedingly shy.
But the person who advanced was now
near enough to see her, and stepping forward with eagerness, pronounced
her name.
Dear me!
"Your friend performs delightfully," he
continued after a pause, on seeing Bingley join the group; "and I doubt
not that you are an adept in the science yourself, Mr.
said she, "I heard you before, but I could not immediately
determine what to say in reply.
But she is perfectly amiable, and often condescends
to drive by my humble abode in her little phaeton and ponies."
Jane was therefore obliged to go on horseback, and her
mother attended her to the door with many cheerful prognostics of a
bad day.
Elizabeth was now most heartily sorry that she had, from the distress of
the moment, been led to make Mr. Darcy acquainted with their fears for
her sister; for since her marriage would so shortly give the
proper termination to the elopement, they might hope to conceal its
unfavourable beginning from all those who were not immediately on the
spot.
Mary," said she, "I wish you had gone with us, for we had such fun!
You
would have been less amiable in my eyes had there _not_ been this little
unwillingness; but allow me to assure you, that I have your respected
mother's permission for this address.
She dared not relate the other
half of Mr. Darcy's letter, nor explain to her sister how sincerely she
had been valued by her friend.
said Jane.
Elizabeth could bear it no longer.
To Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner he was scarcely a less interesting personage
than to herself.
A most welcome negative followed the last question--and her
alarms now being removed, she was at leisure to feel a great deal of
curiosity to see the house herself; and when the subject was revived the
next morning, and she was again applied to, could readily answer, and
with a proper air of indifference, that she had not really any dislike
to the scheme.
Mr. Bennet, you
are wanted immediately; we are all in an uproar.
Elizabeth could not help saying, "It is
very much to his credit, I am sure, that you should think so."
"Probably not; but Mr. Darcy can please where he chooses.
The two girls had been whispering to
each other during the whole visit, and the result of it was, that the
youngest should tax Mr. Bingley with having promised on his first coming
into the country to give a ball at Netherfield.
He generously imputed the whole to his mistaken pride, and
confessed that he had before thought it beneath him to lay his private
actions open to the world.
I am
going away myself."
I guessed as much."
The others then joined her, and expressed admiration of his figure; but
Elizabeth heard not a word, and wholly engrossed by her own feelings,
followed them in silence.
I
_should_ say, one of her ladyship's carriages, for she has several."
Elizabeth made no objection; the door was then allowed to be shut, and
the carriage drove off.
Wickham's alarm now appeared in a heightened complexion and agitated
look; for a few minutes he was silent, till, shaking off his
embarrassment, he turned to her again, and said in the gentlest of
accents:

"You, who so well know my feeling towards Mr. Darcy, will readily
comprehend how sincerely I must rejoice that he is wise enough to assume
even the _appearance_ of what is right.
"If he wants our society,
let him seek it.
_My_
affections and wishes are unchanged, but one word from you will silence
me on this subject for ever."
"I am sure," she added, "if it was not for such good friends I do not
know what would become of her, for she is very ill indeed, and suffers
a vast deal, though with the greatest patience in the world, which is
always the way with her, for she has, without exception, the sweetest
temper I have ever met with.
Make haste, make haste.
Will you be very angry with me, my
dear Lizzy, if I take this opportunity of saying (what I was never bold
enough to say before) how much I like him.
Elizabeth honestly and heartily expressed
her delight in the prospect of their relationship.
But, perhaps he could not in her mother's
presence be what he was before her uncle and aunt.
"Can such abominable pride as his have ever done him good?"
His sisters were anxious for his having an estate of his own; but,
though he was now only established as a tenant, Miss Bingley was by no
means unwilling to preside at his table--nor was Mrs. Hurst, who had
married a man of more fashion than fortune, less disposed to consider
his house as her home when it suited her.
But at last your uncle
was forced to yield, and instead of being allowed to be of use to his
niece, was forced to put up with only having the probable credit of it,
which went sorely against the grain; and I really believe your letter
this morning gave him great pleasure, because it required an explanation
that would rob him of his borrowed feathers, and give the praise where
it was due.
The tumult of Elizabeth's mind was allayed by this conversation.
He heard her with astonishment.
Bingley
was sure of being liked wherever he appeared, Darcy was continually
giving offense.
said he hastily, as he opened the door.
And with a bow to Mr. Darcy, he concluded his speech, which had
been spoken so loud as to be heard by half the room.
Mr. Bingley arrived.
"I am grieved indeed," cried Darcy; "grieved--shocked.
For
my part, Mr. Bingley, I always keep servants that can do their own work;
_my_ daughters are brought up very differently.
This was agreed to, and Mrs. Phillips
protested that they would have a nice comfortable noisy game of lottery
tickets, and a little bit of hot supper afterwards.
"Sure he
will not leave London before he has found them.
The latter part of this address was scarcely heard by Darcy; but Sir
William's allusion to his friend seemed to strike him forcibly, and his
eyes were directed with a very serious expression towards Bingley and
Jane, who were dancing together.
They saw him often, and to his other recommendations was now
added that of general unreserve.
Only think of _that_, my dear; he actually danced with her
twice!
"To yield without conviction is no compliment to the understanding of
either."
Oh!
There could be no conversation in the noise
of Mrs. Phillips's supper party, but his manners recommended him to
everybody.
had I known what
I ought, what I dared to do!
"You persist, then, in supposing his sisters influence him?"
Such a disappointment!
After walking some time in this way, the two ladies in front, the two
gentlemen behind, on resuming their places, after descending to
the brink of the river for the better inspection of some curious
water-plant, there chanced to be a little alteration.
"Oh!
I was so afraid, you know, that something would happen to
put it off, and then I should have gone quite distracted.
They are gone off together from Brighton.
When she is secure of him, there will be more leisure for
falling in love as much as she chooses."
You must therefore allow me to
follow the dictates of my conscience on this occasion, which leads me to
perform what I look on as a point of duty.
Mr. Collins was not a sensible man, and the deficiency of nature had
been but little assisted by education or society; the greatest part
of his life having been spent under the guidance of an illiterate and
miserly father; and though he belonged to one of the universities, he
had merely kept the necessary terms, without forming at it any useful
acquaintance.
Mrs. Gardiner and the children were to remain in Hertfordshire a few
days longer, as the former thought her presence might be serviceable
to her nieces.
At first there
seemed danger of Lydia's engrossing him entirely, for she was a most
determined talker; but being likewise extremely fond of lottery tickets,
she soon grew too much interested in the game, too eager in making bets
and exclaiming after prizes to have attention for anyone in particular.
It was at Sir William Lucas's, where a large party were
assembled.
What relates to yourself, is as follows: 'Having thus
offered you the sincere congratulations of Mrs. Collins and myself on
this happy event, let me now add a short hint on the subject of another;
of which we have been advertised by the same authority.
He has children
of his own, and may have more.
"And what am I to do on the occasion?
I am not romantic, you know; I never
was.
He wisely resolved to be particularly careful that no sign of admiration
should _now_ escape him, nothing that could elevate her with the hope
of influencing his felicity; sensible that if such an idea had been
suggested, his behaviour during the last day must have material weight
in confirming or crushing it.
To find
a man agreeable whom one is determined to hate!
"He has made me so happy," said she, one evening, "by telling me that he
was totally ignorant of my being in town last spring!
At first there
seemed danger of Lydia's engrossing him entirely, for she was a most
determined talker; but being likewise extremely fond of lottery tickets,
she soon grew too much interested in the game, too eager in making bets
and exclaiming after prizes to have attention for anyone in particular.
Their visitors were not to remain above ten days with them.
Why does she not come in?"
When dinner was over, she returned directly to Jane, and Miss Bingley
began abusing her as soon as she was out of the room.
Mrs. Bennet had many grievances to relate, and much to complain of.
Elizabeth looked with unaffected astonishment.
We both know that he has been profligate in every
sense of the word; that he has neither integrity nor honour; that he is
as false and deceitful as he is insinuating."
I remember the time when
I liked a red coat myself very well--and, indeed, so I do still at my
heart; and if a smart young colonel, with five or six thousand a year,
should want one of my girls I shall not say nay to him; and I thought
Colonel Forster looked very becoming the other night at Sir William's in
his regimentals."
"You are then resolved to have him?"
you mean Jane, I suppose, because he danced with her twice.
; and if she would
give him leave, would take an early opportunity of waiting on them.
"And I have another favour to ask you.
She was afraid of talking longer of his
friend; and, having nothing else to say, was now determined to leave the
trouble of finding a subject to him.
"I hope not so.
It was absolutely
necessary, therefore, to think of something, and in this emergence
recollecting _when_ she had seen him last in Hertfordshire, and
feeling curious to know what he would say on the subject of their hasty
departure, she observed:

"How very suddenly you all quitted Netherfield last November, Mr. Darcy!
But really, ma'am, I think it would be very hard upon
younger sisters, that they should not have their share of society and
amusement, because the elder may not have the means or inclination to
marry early.



It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession
of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife.
There is not a bit of fish to be
got to-day.
She saw her in idea settled in
that very house, in all the felicity which a marriage of true affection
could bestow; and she felt capable, under such circumstances, of
endeavouring even to like Bingley's two sisters.
Oh, Lizzy!
"It is unlucky," said she, after a short pause, "that you should not be
able to see your friends before they leave the country.
"Louisa, you will not mind my
waking Mr.
"Did it," said he, "did it soon make you
think better of me?
He was seriously concerned that a cause of so little advantage to anyone
should be forwarded at the sole expense of his brother-in-law, and he
was determined, if possible, to find out the extent of his assistance,
and to discharge the obligation as soon as he could.
You must come and make
Lizzy marry Mr. Collins, for she vows she will not have him, and if you
do not make haste he will change his mind and not have _her_."
"Their conduct has been such," replied Elizabeth, "as neither you, nor
I, nor anybody can ever forget.
"I assure
you, I feel it exceedingly," said Lady Catherine; "I believe no one
feels the loss of friends so much as I do.
March was to take
Elizabeth to Hunsford.
And with a bow to Mr. Darcy, he concluded his speech, which had
been spoken so loud as to be heard by half the room.
I often
tell young ladies that no excellence in music is to be acquired without
constant practice.
Calling back
the servant, therefore, she commissioned him, though in so breathless
an accent as made her almost unintelligible, to fetch his master and
mistress home instantly.
And so you like this man's sisters,
too, do you?
"My mother is tolerably well, I trust; though her spirits are greatly
shaken.
"I deserve neither such praise nor such censure," cried Elizabeth; "I am
_not_ a great reader, and I have pleasure in many things."
"And that," said Mrs. Reynolds, pointing to another of the miniatures,
"is my master--and very like him.
"If I had been able," said she, "to carry my point in going to Brighton,
with all my family, _this_ would not have happened; but poor dear Lydia
had nobody to take care of her.
"I must now mention a circumstance which I would wish to forget myself,
and which no obligation less than the present should induce me to unfold
to any human being.
They were within twenty yards of each other, and so abrupt was his
appearance, that it was impossible to avoid his sight.
You shall not defend her, though
it is Charlotte Lucas.
He looked serious, as usual; and,
she thought, more as he had been used to look in Hertfordshire, than as
she had seen him at Pemberley.
You see on what a footing we are.
"Sir, you quite misunderstand me," said Mrs. Bennet, alarmed.
"I mention it, because it is the living which I ought to have had.
"Shall we ask him why a man of sense and
education, and who has lived in the world, is ill qualified to recommend
himself to strangers?"
And there are several of the young men, too, that she
likes very much.
No one but Jane, she thought,
could flatter herself with such an expectation.
While thus engaged, Elizabeth had a fair opportunity of deciding whether
she most feared or wished for the appearance of Mr. Darcy, by the
feelings which prevailed on his entering the room; and then, though but
a moment before she had believed her wishes to predominate, she began to
regret that he came.
Of what he has _particularly_ accused me I
am ignorant; but of the truth of what I shall relate, I can summon more
than one witness of undoubted veracity.
She opened
the door and met Maria in the landing place, who, breathless with
agitation, cried out--

"Oh, my dear Eliza!
"As I did the other day," said Elizabeth with a conscious smile: "very
true, it will be wise in me to refrain from _that_.
"I found," said he, "as the time drew near that I had better not meet
Mr. Darcy; that to be in the same room, the same party with him for so
many hours together, might be more than I could bear, and that scenes
might arise unpleasant to more than myself."
If I can
perceive her regard for him, he must be a simpleton, indeed, not to
discover it too."
The son was to join
in cutting off the entail, as soon as he should be of age, and the widow
and younger children would by that means be provided for.
I think I have heard you say that you know them."
"What can be the meaning of this?"
I told my sister Phillips so the other day.
But what is that to me?
Now be sincere;
did you admire me for my impertinence?"
Mrs. Long said so too, for I asked her whether you did not.
I quite forgot!
I wish you very happy and very rich, and by
refusing your hand, do all in my power to prevent your being otherwise.
It is only that he is blessed
with greater sweetness of address, and a stronger desire of generally
pleasing, than any other man."
Had Colonel Forster seen Denny himself?"
said he,
with a look of doubt.
It
was spoken of again while they were at dinner, when Mr. Collins joining
in, observed:

"Yes, Miss Elizabeth, you will have the honour of seeing Lady Catherine
de Bourgh on the ensuing Sunday at church, and I need not say you will
be delighted with her.
I never in my life saw
anything more elegant than their dresses.
She looked at his two sisters, and saw them making signs
of derision at each other, and at Darcy, who continued, however,
imperturbably grave.
The respect created by the conviction of his
valuable qualities, though at first unwillingly admitted, had for some
time ceased to be repugnant to her feeling; and it was now heightened
into somewhat of a friendlier nature, by the testimony so highly in
his favour, and bringing forward his disposition in so amiable a light,
which yesterday had produced.
But
nothing can be done--I know very well that nothing can be done.
They were
all of them warm in their admiration; and at that moment she felt that
to be mistress of Pemberley might be something!
That I was desirous of believing her indifferent is
certain--but I will venture to say that my investigation and decisions
are not usually influenced by my hopes or fears.
"I can readily believe," answered he gravely, "that reports may vary
greatly with respect to me; and I could wish, Miss Bennet, that you were
not to sketch my character at the present moment, as there is reason to
fear that the performance would reflect no credit on either."
said Elizabeth, still
addressing Colonel Fitzwilliam.
His
name had never been voluntarily mentioned before them by her niece; and
the kind of half-expectation which Mrs. Gardiner had formed, of their
being followed by a letter from him, had ended in nothing.
said he,
as he joined her.
Charlotte had seen
them from her husband's room, crossing the road, and immediately running
into the other, told the girls what an honour they might expect, adding:

"I may thank you, Eliza, for this piece of civility.
They were off Saturday night about
twelve, as is conjectured, but were not missed till yesterday morning at
eight.
I have more than once observed to Lady Catherine, that
her charming daughter seemed born to be a duchess, and that the most
elevated rank, instead of giving her consequence, would be adorned by
her.
_Her_ mind
was less difficult to develop.
She was not rendered formidable by
silence; but whatever she said was spoken in so authoritative a tone,
as marked her self-importance, and brought Mr. Wickham immediately to
Elizabeth's mind; and from the observation of the day altogether, she
believed Lady Catherine to be exactly what he represented.
In an hurried manner he immediately began an inquiry after her
health, imputing his visit to a wish of hearing that she were better.
Till I
can forget his father, I can never defy or expose _him_."
Now is your time.
Kitty then owned, with a very natural
triumph on knowing more than the rest of us, that in Lydia's last letter
she had prepared her for such a step.
Elizabeth will soon
be the wife of Mr. Darcy.
But how came you to tell me that he was so
disagreeable?"
Daughters
are never of so much consequence to a father.
I will go directly to Mr. Bennet, and
we shall very soon settle it with her, I am sure."
"This was a lucky idea of mine, indeed!"
I will speak to her about it directly.
But tell me, what did you come down to
Netherfield for?
You have sense, and we all
expect you to use it.
"That is exactly what I should have supposed of you," said Elizabeth.
My uncle and aunt and I were to go together; and the others
were to meet us at the church.
Pursuing her way along the lane, she then began it.
it must be my uncle's doings!
Her
coming there was the most unfortunate, the most ill-judged thing in the
world!
She is well, and begs to be dutifully remembered to
you and your mother.--Yours, etc.,

"E.
"What is it you mean?"
"Can such abominable pride as his have ever done him good?"
She answered him with cold civility.
At any rate, she cannot grow
many degrees worse, without authorising us to lock her up for the rest
of her life."
Till I was in Kent, and saw
so much both of Mr. Darcy and his relation Colonel Fitzwilliam, I was
ignorant of the truth myself.
"And they are really to be married!"
It will not do.
But now it comes out:

"'My motive for cautioning you is as follows.
The
evening conversation, when they were all assembled, had lost much of
its animation, and almost all its sense by the absence of Jane and
Elizabeth.
How earnestly did she then wish that her former opinions had been more
reasonable, her expressions more moderate!
"My uncle is to send a servant for us."
My dear aunt, how could you think of it?
It had been settled in the evening between the aunt and the niece, that
such a striking civility as Miss Darcy's in coming to see them on the
very day of her arrival at Pemberley, for she had reached it only to a
late breakfast, ought to be imitated, though it could not be equalled,
by some exertion of politeness on their side; and, consequently, that
it would be highly expedient to wait on her at Pemberley the following
morning.
To
this discovery succeeded some others equally mortifying.
But who was your mother?
"Yes, sir; but I do not know when _that_ will be.
And I think you will agree with me, in
considering the removal from that corps as highly advisable, both on
his account and my niece's.
Though her manner
varied, however, her determination never did.
"Come, Darcy," said he, "I must have you dance.
This,
however, was no evil to Elizabeth, and upon the whole she spent her time
comfortably enough; there were half-hours of pleasant conversation with
Charlotte, and the weather was so fine for the time of year that she had
often great enjoyment out of doors.
I will take care of
myself, and of Mr. Wickham too.
Bennet.'
This is your final resolve!
Nothing that she could say, however, had any influence.
You thought the
waiter must not hear, as if he cared!
"You must know that
though I should be exceedingly grieved at their disapprobation, I could
not hesitate."
"And yet I meant to be uncommonly clever in taking so decided a dislike
to him, without any reason.
To Mr. Bennet's
acknowledgments he briefly replied, with assurance of his eagerness to
promote the welfare of any of his family; and concluded with entreaties
that the subject might never be mentioned to him again.
Then addressing her daughter, "Oh!
He confessed himself obliged to leave the regiment,
on account of some debts of honour, which were very pressing; and
scrupled not to lay all the ill-consequences of Lydia's flight on her
own folly alone.
Mr. Darcy was writing, and Miss Bingley, seated near him, was watching
the progress of his letter and repeatedly calling off his attention by
messages to his sister.
I never heard you speak ill of a human being in your
life."
repeated Elizabeth, in utter amazement.
cried Elizabeth, when she had finished.
"I began to be afraid you would never come back again.
Lady
Catherine might see him in her way through town; and his engagement to
Bingley of coming again to Netherfield must give way.
"Thank you," said Lydia, "for if you did, I should certainly tell you
all, and then Wickham would be angry."
Very odd!
But
nothing can be done--I know very well that nothing can be done.
This has been my motive, my fair cousin, and
I flatter myself it will not sink me in your esteem.
How soon any other wishes
introduced themselves I can hardly tell, but I believe in about half an
hour after I had seen you."
how acutely did she now
feel it!
"Yes, but intricate characters are the _most_ amusing.
It is natural that obligation should
be felt, and if I could _feel_ gratitude, I would now thank you.
_That_ would be the greatest misfortune of all!
And so, my dear sister, I find, from our uncle and aunt, that
you have actually seen Pemberley."
Darcy?"
I have the greatest dislike in
the world to that sort of thing.
"Do you prefer reading to cards?"
no."
When have you been prevented by want of money from going
wherever you chose, or procuring anything you had a fancy for?"
Then taking the disengaged arm of Mr. Darcy, she left Elizabeth to walk
by herself.
"And
pray, may I ask?--" But checking himself, he added, in a gayer tone, "Is
it in address that he improves?
Let _our_
first effusions be less insupportable than those of the generality of
travellers."
"From the former.
I am only ashamed of his asking so little."
Your uncle!
I shall
pull it to pieces as soon as I get home, and see if I can make it up any
better."
"As much as I ever wish to be," cried Elizabeth very warmly.
Mr. Collins was carefully instructing them in what
they were to expect, that the sight of such rooms, so many servants, and
so splendid a dinner, might not wholly overpower them.
said she.
Elizabeth could not see Lady Catherine without recollecting that, had
she chosen it, she might by this time have been presented to her as
her future niece; nor could she think, without a smile, of what her
ladyship's indignation would have been.
"It is no such thing.
"It must be something particular, to take him there at this
time of year."
I have no such injuries to resent.
The arrival of letters
was the grand object of every morning's impatience.
She had very little notice from any but him.
But, Lizzy, this must go no farther than yourself, or Jane
at most.
"I am thinking of what you have been telling me," said she.
Charlotte's reply was spared by the entrance of Jane and Elizabeth.
_Too much_, I am afraid; for what becomes of the moral, if our comfort
springs from a breach of promise?
Jane ran to her uncle and aunt, and welcomed and
thanked them both, with alternate smiles and tears.
Nor did he seem much more at ease; when he spoke, his accent
had none of its usual sedateness; and he repeated his inquiries as
to the time of her having left Longbourn, and of her having stayed in
Derbyshire, so often, and in so hurried a way, as plainly spoke the
distraction of his thoughts.
I write without any
intention of paining you, or humbling myself, by dwelling on wishes
which, for the happiness of both, cannot be too soon forgotten; and the
effort which the formation and the perusal of this letter must occasion,
should have been spared, had not my character required it to be written
and read.
She
certainly did not hate him.
Do not you know
that Mr. Collins wants to marry Lizzy?"
You will only think I feel _more_ than I ought to do, when I
tell you all."
--My mind, however, is now made up on the subject, for having
received ordination at Easter, I have been so fortunate as to be
distinguished by the patronage of the Right Honourable Lady Catherine de
Bourgh, widow of Sir Lewis de Bourgh, whose bounty and beneficence has
preferred me to the valuable rectory of this parish, where it shall be
my earnest endeavour to demean myself with grateful respect towards her
ladyship, and be ever ready to perform those rites and ceremonies which
are instituted by the Church of England.
Till Elizabeth entered the drawing-room at Netherfield, and looked in
vain for Mr. Wickham among the cluster of red coats there assembled, a
doubt of his being present had never occurred to her.
In her kind schemes for Elizabeth, she sometimes planned her marrying
Colonel Fitzwilliam.
"Your humility, Mr. Bingley," said Elizabeth, "must disarm reproof."
Elizabeth honoured him for such feelings, and thought him handsomer than
ever as he expressed them.
However, he wrote some verses
on her, and very pretty they were."
The letter which she wrote on this occasion to her sister will
prove what she felt.
And there are several of the young men, too, that she
likes very much.
"Well, well," said he, "do not make yourself unhappy.
She inquired into Charlotte's domestic
concerns familiarly and minutely, gave her a great deal of advice as
to the management of them all; told her how everything ought to be
regulated in so small a family as hers, and instructed her as to the
care of her cows and her poultry.
But in all, and in almost every line of each, there was a want of that
cheerfulness which had been used to characterise her style, and which,
proceeding from the serenity of a mind at ease with itself and kindly
disposed towards everyone, had been scarcely ever clouded.
Are any of your
younger sisters out, Miss Bennet?"
The sisters, on hearing
this, repeated three or four times how much they were grieved, how
shocking it was to have a bad cold, and how excessively they disliked
being ill themselves; and then thought no more of the matter: and their
indifference towards Jane when not immediately before them restored
Elizabeth to the enjoyment of all her former dislike.
"He is just what a young man ought to be," said she, "sensible,
good-humoured, lively; and I never saw such happy manners!--so much
ease, with such perfect good breeding!"
You will not, I hope, consider me as showing any disrespect
to your family, my dear madam, by thus withdrawing my pretensions to
your daughter's favour, without having paid yourself and Mr. Bennet the
compliment of requesting you to interpose your authority in my
behalf.
"Did not you?
"If I were as rich as Mr. Darcy," cried a young Lucas, who came with
his sisters, "I should not care how proud I was.
But on the following morning, every hope of this
kind was done away.
We must trespass
a little longer on your kindness."
"This is not to be borne.
But I will endeavour to banish every painful thought,
and think only of what will make me happy--your affection, and the
invariable kindness of my dear uncle and aunt.
She
was resolved against any sort of conversation with him, and turned away
with a degree of ill-humour which she could not wholly surmount even in
speaking to Mr. Bingley, whose blind partiality provoked her.
"I should not be surprised," said Darcy, "if he were to give it up as
soon as any eligible purchase offers."
They then sat down, and when her inquiries after Rosings were made,
seemed in danger of sinking into total silence.
Elizabeth could bear it no longer.
Darcy made no answer, and seemed desirous of changing the subject.
Oh, sister!
They had
nothing to accuse him of but pride; pride he probably had, and if not,
it would certainly be imputed by the inhabitants of a small market-town
where the family did not visit.
"_Her_ not objecting does not justify _him_.
"You dislike an argument,
and want to silence this."
"I am almost afraid of asking what you thought of me, when we met at
Pemberley.
Her cousin prefaced
his speech with a solemn bow and though she could not hear a word of
it, she felt as if hearing it all, and saw in the motion of his lips the
words "apology," "Hunsford," and "Lady Catherine de Bourgh."
"And I certainly _never_ shall give it.
There was now an interest,
however, in believing the housekeeper; and they soon became sensible
that the authority of a servant who had known him since he was four
years old, and whose own manners indicated respectability, was not to be
hastily rejected.
All that
is known after this is, that they were seen to continue the London road.
"I had not at that time the honour of knowing any lady in the assembly
beyond my own party."
Are you out of your senses, to be
accepting this man?
"Oh!
At present, however, I consider myself as quite fixed here."
The gentlemen came; and she thought he looked as if he would have
answered her hopes; but, alas!
"It certainly is a most iniquitous affair," said Mr. Bennet, "and
nothing can clear Mr. Collins from the guilt of inheriting Longbourn.
Will you tell me
how long you have loved him?"
In town I believe he chiefly
lived, but his studying the law was a mere pretence, and being now free
from all restraint, his life was a life of idleness and dissipation.
"If they had uncles enough to fill _all_ Cheapside," cried Bingley, "it
would not make them one jot less agreeable."
Never had his wit been directed in a manner so
little agreeable to her.
How earnestly did she then wish that her former opinions had been more
reasonable, her expressions more moderate!
But I will not torment you with vain wishes, which may
seem purposely to ask for your thanks.
Lady Catherine approached, and, after listening for a few minutes, said
to Darcy:

"Miss Bennet would not play at all amiss if she practised more, and
could have the advantage of a London master.
By Jane, this attention was received with the greatest
pleasure, but Elizabeth still saw superciliousness in their treatment
of everybody, hardly excepting even her sister, and could not like them;
though their kindness to Jane, such as it was, had a value as arising in
all probability from the influence of their brother's admiration.
With respect to Wickham, the travellers soon found that he was not held
there in much estimation; for though the chief of his concerns with the
son of his patron were imperfectly understood, it was yet a well-known
fact that, on his quitting Derbyshire, he had left many debts behind
him, which Mr. Darcy afterwards discharged.
Was not this some excuse for incivility, if I _was_ uncivil?
We
know how little there is to tempt anyone to our humble abode.
"We are speaking of music, madam," said he, when no longer able to avoid
a reply.
I do not know who is
good enough for him."
Her daughter endeavoured to convince her of what she
did not believe herself, that his attentions to Jane had been merely the
effect of a common and transient liking, which ceased when he saw her
no more; but though the probability of the statement was admitted at
the time, she had the same story to repeat every day.
I will go directly to Mr. Bennet, and
we shall very soon settle it with her, I am sure."
"I should imagine not."
Her mother's ungraciousness,
made the sense of what they owed him more painful to Elizabeth's mind;
and she would, at times, have given anything to be privileged to tell
him that his kindness was neither unknown nor unfelt by the whole of the
family.
Charlotte did not stay much
longer, and Elizabeth was then left to reflect on what she had heard.
Well, Colonel
Fitzwilliam, what do I play next?
"You dislike an argument,
and want to silence this."
If I were not afraid of judging harshly, I should
be almost tempted to say that there is a strong appearance of duplicity
in all this.
Mr. Gardiner added in his letter, that they might expect to see their
father at home on the following day, which was Saturday.
I thought I should have broken my heart."
But their
father, though very laconic in his expressions of pleasure, was really
glad to see them; he had felt their importance in the family circle.
He
never said a great deal, nor did she give herself the trouble of talking
or of listening much; but it struck her in the course of their third
rencontre that he was asking some odd unconnected questions--about
her pleasure in being at Hunsford, her love of solitary walks, and her
opinion of Mr. and Mrs. Collins's happiness; and that in speaking of
Rosings and her not perfectly understanding the house, he seemed to
expect that whenever she came into Kent again she would be staying
_there_ too.
"And do you really know all this?"
Between the
two eldest and herself especially, there subsisted a particular regard.
His behaviour to us has,
in every respect, been as pleasing as when we were in Derbyshire.
"Because you were grave and silent, and gave me no encouragement."
Wickham, Lydia, were all forgotten.
Much as I respect them, I believe I thought
only of _you_."
Mrs. Bennet chose to consider it as given in
compliment to her eldest daughter, and was particularly flattered
by receiving the invitation from Mr. Bingley himself, instead of a
ceremonious card.
Well, and so
just as the carriage came to the door, my uncle was called away upon
business to that horrid man Mr. Stone.
Lakes, mountains, and rivers shall not be jumbled together in our
imaginations; nor when we attempt to describe any particular scene,
will we begin quarreling about its relative situation.
cried Elizabeth.
"I can readily believe," answered he gravely, "that reports may vary
greatly with respect to me; and I could wish, Miss Bennet, that you were
not to sketch my character at the present moment, as there is reason to
fear that the performance would reflect no credit on either."
Her affections had continually been
fluctuating but never without an object.
If I were to go through the world, I could
not meet with a better.
She held out her hand; he kissed it with affectionate gallantry, though
he hardly knew how to look, and they entered the house.
He spoke of it as a certain event, of which the time alone could
be undecided.
And for _this_ we are to be
thankful.
This roused a general astonishment; and he had the pleasure of being
eagerly questioned by his wife and his five daughters at once.
As for Elizabeth herself, this invitation was so far from
exciting in her the same feelings as in her mother and Lydia, that she
considered it as the death warrant of all possibility of common sense
for the latter; and detestable as such a step must make her were it
known, she could not help secretly advising her father not to let her
go.
Her answer was warmly in his favour.
The two girls had been whispering to
each other during the whole visit, and the result of it was, that the
youngest should tax Mr. Bingley with having promised on his first coming
into the country to give a ball at Netherfield.
I was sure you could not
be so beautiful for nothing!
"Your humility, Mr. Bingley," said Elizabeth, "must disarm reproof."
In seeing Bingley, her thoughts naturally flew to her sister; and, oh!
"Now," said she, "that this first meeting is over, I feel perfectly
easy.
I am very sensible of the honour of
your proposals, but it is impossible for me to do otherwise than to
decline them."
The former was divided between admiration of the
brilliancy which exercise had given to her complexion, and doubt as
to the occasion's justifying her coming so far alone.
Then the two third he danced with Miss King,
and the two fourth with Maria Lucas, and the two fifth with Jane again,
and the two sixth with Lizzy, and the _Boulanger_--"

"If he had had any compassion for _me_," cried her husband impatiently,
"he would not have danced half so much!
As no objection was made to the young people's engagement with their
aunt, and all Mr. Collins's scruples of leaving Mr. and Mrs. Bennet for
a single evening during his visit were most steadily resisted, the coach
conveyed him and his five cousins at a suitable hour to Meryton; and
the girls had the pleasure of hearing, as they entered the drawing-room,
that Mr. Wickham had accepted their uncle's invitation, and was then in
the house.
Thank Heaven!
It appeared to her merely the suggestion of Caroline's
interested wishes, and she could not for a moment suppose that those
wishes, however openly or artfully spoken, could influence a young man
so totally independent of everyone.
She told the story,
however, with great spirit among her friends; for she had a lively,
playful disposition, which delighted in anything ridiculous.
After sitting long enough to
admire every article of furniture in the room, from the sideboard to
the fender, to give an account of their journey, and of all that had
happened in London, Mr. Collins invited them to take a stroll in the
garden, which was large and well laid out, and to the cultivation of
which he attended himself.
cried Elizabeth; "but how could _that_ be?
You will be having a charming mother-in-law, indeed;
and, of course, she will always be at Pemberley with you."
Elizabeth took an opportunity of thanking her.
But on the third morning after his
arrival in Hertfordshire, she saw him, from her dressing-room window,
enter the paddock and ride towards the house.
You will
be censured, slighted, and despised, by everyone connected with him.
Mrs. Collins will be very glad of your
company, I am sure."
She had once or twice suggested to Elizabeth the possibility of his
being partial to her, but Elizabeth always laughed at the idea; and Mrs.
Collins did not think it right to press the subject, from the danger of
raising expectations which might only end in disappointment; for in her
opinion it admitted not of a doubt, that all her friend's dislike would
vanish, if she could suppose him to be in her power.
On that head,
therefore, I shall be uniformly silent; and you may assure yourself that
no ungenerous reproach shall ever pass my lips when we are married."
I
am the happiest creature in the world.
It
is an advantage to have it so far from this part of the kingdom.
"Tell me once for all, are you engaged to him?"
and so did Mrs.
Forster.
She smiled, but made no answer.
"To Jane herself," she exclaimed, "there could be no possibility of
objection; all loveliness and goodness as she is!--her understanding
excellent, her mind improved, and her manners captivating.
What
are young men to rocks and mountains?
"I believe, ma'am, I may safely promise you _never_ to dance with him."
were questions with which she amused herself.
Is nothing due to me on that
score?
It was painful, exceedingly painful, to know that they were
under obligations to a person who could never receive a return.
It was a fortnight since Mrs. Bennet had been downstairs; but on this
happy day she again took her seat at the head of her table, and in
spirits oppressively high.
It
gave her all the animation that her spirits could boast; for she was in
no cheerful humour.
I wish you had been there.
He
_was_ coming to us, in order to assure us of his concern, before he had
any idea of their not being gone to Scotland: when that apprehension
first got abroad, it hastened his journey."
She had never perceived, while the regiment was in Hertfordshire, that
Lydia had any partiality for him; but she was convinced that Lydia
wanted only encouragement to attach herself to anybody.
It was as
follows:

"MY DEAR SIR,

"I feel myself called upon, by our relationship, and my situation
in life, to condole with you on the grievous affliction you are now
suffering under, of which we were yesterday informed by a letter from
Hertfordshire.
"What did you say of me, that I did not deserve?
Mrs. Bennet's best
comfort was that Mr. Bingley must be down again in the summer.
It was some time, however, before a smile could be extorted from Jane.
But I believe I must date it from my first seeing his beautiful grounds
at Pemberley."
That his anger could be carried to such a point of inconceivable
resentment as to refuse his daughter a privilege without which her
marriage would scarcely seem valid, exceeded all she could believe
possible.
I did not know before, that I had two daughters on the brink
of matrimony.
It was absolutely necessary to interrupt him now.
Colonel Forster gives us reason to expect
him here soon.
"Let us be thankful that you are preserved from a state of such
insensibility."
no.
You
see how continually we are engaged there.
Elizabeth was excessively disappointed; she had set her heart on seeing
the Lakes, and still thought there might have been time enough.
Poor Kitty has
anger for having concealed their attachment; but as it was a matter of
confidence, one cannot wonder.
But
my dearest love, tell me what dish Mr. Darcy is particularly fond of,
that I may have it to-morrow."
But, luckily, he
came back again in ten minutes' time, and then we all set out.
In vain did Elizabeth attempt to make her reasonable, and Jane to make
her resigned.
"He brought it with him for us to see."
She remembered also that, till the Netherfield
family had quitted the country, he had told his story to no one but
herself; but that after their removal it had been everywhere discussed;
that he had then no reserves, no scruples in sinking Mr. Darcy's
character, though he had assured her that respect for the father would
always prevent his exposing the son.
But in matters of greater
weight, I may suffer from want of money.
I told him, moreover, that I believed myself
mistaken in supposing, as I had done, that your sister was indifferent
to him; and as I could easily perceive that his attachment to her was
unabated, I felt no doubt of their happiness together."
One has got all the goodness, and the other all the
appearance of it."
Mr. Collins must excuse
me.
Though Lydia's short
letter to Mrs. F. gave them to understand that they were going to Gretna
Green, something was dropped by Denny expressing his belief that W.
never intended to go there, or to marry Lydia at all, which was
repeated to Colonel F., who, instantly taking the alarm, set off from B.
intending to trace their route.
It would have suited
me in every respect."
They had not long been together before Mr. Darcy told her that Bingley
was also coming to wait on her; and she had barely time to express her
satisfaction, and prepare for such a visitor, when Bingley's quick
step was heard on the stairs, and in a moment he entered the room.
"Yes, always," she replied, without knowing what she said, for her
thoughts had wandered far from the subject, as soon afterwards appeared
by her suddenly exclaiming, "I remember hearing you once say, Mr. Darcy,
that you hardly ever forgave, that your resentment once created was
unappeasable.
"Oh!
You must and shall be married by a special licence.
Her colour changed,
and she said no more.
This was a stroke of civility for which she was quite unprepared;
and she could hardly suppress a smile at his being now seeking the
acquaintance of some of those very people against whom his pride had
revolted in his offer to herself.
shocking!"
Soon after their return, a letter was delivered to Miss Bennet; it came
from Netherfield.
While Sir William was with them, Mr. Collins devoted his
morning to driving him out in his gig, and showing him the country; but
when he went away, the whole family returned to their usual employments,
and Elizabeth was thankful to find that they did not see more of her
cousin by the alteration, for the chief of the time between breakfast
and dinner was now passed by him either at work in the garden or in
reading and writing, and looking out of the window in his own book-room,
which fronted the road.
"I might as well inquire," replied she, "why with so evident a desire
of offending and insulting me, you chose to tell me that you liked me
against your will, against your reason, and even against your character?
This was a lucky recollection--it saved her from something very like
regret.
Yet, indeed, I am
in earnest.
"Their conduct has been such," replied Elizabeth, "as neither you, nor
I, nor anybody can ever forget.
"I should never have considered the distance as one of the _advantages_
of the match," cried Elizabeth.
In the former were many good paintings;
but Elizabeth knew nothing of the art; and from such as had been already
visible below, she had willingly turned to look at some drawings of Miss
Darcy's, in crayons, whose subjects were usually more interesting, and
also more intelligible.
It would be dreadful!
Tease calmness of manner and presence of
mind!
On the contrary, she was as much disposed to
complain of it as her husband.
I have met with two instances lately, one I will not mention; the
other is Charlotte's marriage.
They were not the only objects of Mr. Collins's admiration.
Mrs. Gardiner went away in all the perplexity about Elizabeth and her
Derbyshire friend that had attended her from that part of the world.
He had,
to be sure, done much.
How could I be so silly as to wish it!
I
know you will contrive it all."
It was some time, however, before a smile could be extorted from Jane.
"I am astonished, my dear," said Mrs. Bennet, "that you should be so
ready to think your own children silly.
She had high
animal spirits, and a sort of natural self-consequence, which the
attention of the officers, to whom her uncle's good dinners, and her own
easy manners recommended her, had increased into assurance.
"They arise chiefly from what is passing at the time, and though I
sometimes amuse myself with suggesting and arranging such little elegant
compliments as may be adapted to ordinary occasions, I always wish to
give them as unstudied an air as possible."
He could not speak a word for full ten
minutes.
He took the hint, and soon began with, "This seems a very comfortable
house.
But let me advise you to think better of it.
Respect,
esteem, and confidence had vanished for ever; and all his views
of domestic happiness were overthrown.
I do assure you that my intimacy has
not yet taught me _that_.
The two young ladies were summoned from the shrubbery, where this
conversation passed, by the arrival of the very persons of whom they had
been speaking; Mr. Bingley and his sisters came to give their personal
invitation for the long-expected ball at Netherfield, which was fixed
for the following Tuesday.
"Care of him!
She had heard nothing of Lady
Catherine that spoke her awful from any extraordinary talents or
miraculous virtue, and the mere stateliness of money or rank she thought
she could witness without trepidation.
Had she merely _dined_ with him, she might
only have discovered whether he had a good appetite; but you must
remember that four evenings have also been spent together--and four
evenings may do a great deal."
You
mentioned _two_ instances.
It was dated
from Rosings, at eight o'clock in the morning, and was as follows:--

"Be not alarmed, madam, on receiving this letter, by the apprehension
of its containing any repetition of those sentiments or renewal of those
offers which were last night so disgusting to you.
Her mind received knowledge which had never before fallen
in her way.
"Are they indeed!"
He simpers, and smirks, and makes love to
us all.
If your abhorrence of _me_
should make _my_ assertions valueless, you cannot be prevented by
the same cause from confiding in my cousin; and that there may be
the possibility of consulting him, I shall endeavour to find some
opportunity of putting this letter in your hands in the course of the
morning.
"Upon my word, Caroline, I should think it more possible to get
Pemberley by purchase than by imitation."
Mr. Collins made his
declaration in form.
I cannot acquit
him of that duty; nor could I think well of the man who should omit an
occasion of testifying his respect towards anybody connected with the
family."
"I wish I might take this for a compliment; but to be so easily seen
through I am afraid is pitiful."
Mr. Darcy drew his chair a little towards her, and said, "_You_ cannot
have a right to such very strong local attachment.
"I am more likely to want more time than courage, Elizabeth.
Elizabeth, for the sake of
saying something that might turn her mother's thoughts, now asked her if
Charlotte Lucas had been at Longbourn since _her_ coming away.
You ought all to have learned.
Mrs. Hill began instantly to express her joy.
You could not have met with a person more
capable of giving you certain information on that head than myself, for
I have been connected with his family in a particular manner from my
infancy."
"I wish I could call her amiable.
"This is delightful indeed!
It is very unlucky; but as I have actually paid the visit, we
cannot escape the acquaintance now."
And this consideration leads
me moreover to reflect, with augmented satisfaction, on a certain event
of last November; for had it been otherwise, I must have been involved
in all your sorrow and disgrace.
Had Elizabeth
been able to encounter his eye, she might have seen how well the
expression of heartfelt delight, diffused over his face, became him;
but, though she could not look, she could listen, and he told her of
feelings, which, in proving of what importance she was to him, made his
affection every moment more valuable.
I must conclude, for I cannot be long from my poor
mother.
Bingley was endeared to Darcy by the
easiness, openness, and ductility of his temper, though no disposition
could offer a greater contrast to his own, and though with his own he
never appeared dissatisfied.
Instead of
viewing them as a stranger, I might have rejoiced in them as my own, and
welcomed to them as visitors my uncle and aunt.
She was
going to the butcher's, she told me, on purpose to order in some meat on
Wednesday, and she has got three couple of ducks just fit to be killed."
Elizabeth, having rather expected to affront him, was amazed at his
gallantry; but there was a mixture of sweetness and archness in her
manner which made it difficult for her to affront anybody; and Darcy
had never been so bewitched by any woman as he was by her.
Everything nourishes what is
strong already.
It must be an amusing study."
Mrs. Gardiner and the children were to remain in Hertfordshire a few
days longer, as the former thought her presence might be serviceable
to her nieces.
Forgive me for having taken up so much of your time, and accept my best
wishes for your health and happiness."
"Is that his design in settling here?"
Mrs. Reynolds then directed their attention to one of Miss Darcy, drawn
when she was only eight years old.
She answered with equal
indifference and brevity, and the other said no more.
The two youngest of the family,
Catherine and Lydia, were particularly frequent in these attentions;
their minds were more vacant than their sisters', and when nothing
better offered, a walk to Meryton was necessary to amuse their morning
hours and furnish conversation for the evening; and however bare of news
the country in general might be, they always contrived to learn some
from their aunt.
cried
Jane.
Wickham of
course wanted more than he could get; but at length was reduced to be
reasonable.
Nor did he seem much more at ease; when he spoke, his accent
had none of its usual sedateness; and he repeated his inquiries as
to the time of her having left Longbourn, and of her having stayed in
Derbyshire, so often, and in so hurried a way, as plainly spoke the
distraction of his thoughts.
She knew but little
of their meeting in Derbyshire, and therefore felt for the awkwardness
which must attend her sister, in seeing him almost for the first time
after receiving his explanatory letter.
Elizabeth, though expecting no less, thanked
him with tears of gratitude; and all three being actuated by one spirit,
everything relating to their journey was speedily settled.
"I found," said he, "as the time drew near that I had better not meet
Mr. Darcy; that to be in the same room, the same party with him for so
many hours together, might be more than I could bear, and that scenes
might arise unpleasant to more than myself."
"You did!
He confessed himself obliged to leave the regiment,
on account of some debts of honour, which were very pressing; and
scrupled not to lay all the ill-consequences of Lydia's flight on her
own folly alone.
Mrs. Bennet could hardly contain herself.
Her look and manners were open, cheerful, and engaging as ever,
but without any symptom of peculiar regard, and I remained convinced
from the evening's scrutiny, that though she received his attentions
with pleasure, she did not invite them by any participation of
sentiment.
"I have heard much of your master's fine person," said Mrs. Gardiner,
looking at the picture; "it is a handsome face.
_That_ is all settled."
Elizabeth went away with her head full of him.
After sitting long enough to
admire every article of furniture in the room, from the sideboard to
the fender, to give an account of their journey, and of all that had
happened in London, Mr. Collins invited them to take a stroll in the
garden, which was large and well laid out, and to the cultivation of
which he attended himself.
Mrs. Gardiner went away in all the perplexity about Elizabeth and her
Derbyshire friend that had attended her from that part of the world.
"Did it," said he, "did it soon make you
think better of me?
I am
afraid you will be angry."
They must have seen them together for ever."
I speak nothing but the truth.
Their
arrival was dreaded by the elder Miss Bennets, and Jane more especially,
who gave Lydia the feelings which would have attended herself, had she
been the culprit, and was wretched in the thought of what her sister
must endure.
Everybody was surprised, and Darcy, after looking at her for a moment,
turned silently away.
"Will it not be advisable, before we proceed on this subject, to
arrange with rather more precision the degree of importance which is to
appertain to this request, as well as the degree of intimacy subsisting
between the parties?"
After a silence of several minutes, he came towards her
in an agitated manner, and thus began:

"In vain I have struggled.
"Yes, indeed, his friends may well rejoice in his having met with one
of the very few sensible women who would have accepted him, or have made
him happy if they had.
Lady
Catherine's unjustifiable endeavours to separate us were the means of
removing all my doubts.
"This is not to be borne.
"The part which I acted is now to be explained.
She could not determine how her mother
would take it; sometimes doubting whether all his wealth and grandeur
would be enough to overcome her abhorrence of the man.
Have you not heard me say that from his earliest
hours he was destined for his cousin?"
Adieu!
Elizabeth had never been more at a loss to make her
feelings appear what they were not.
You have shown him off now much
more than he did himself."
Won't it, Kitty?"
What
a contrast did it offer to his last address in Rosings Park, when he put
his letter into her hand!
I am sorry for her, because, with her disposition, she may not get
over it immediately.
The picture-gallery, and two or three of the principal bedrooms, were
all that remained to be shown.
I can now
say with the housekeeper, that though some people may call him proud, I
have seen nothing of it."
"I comfort myself with thinking," replied Jane, "that he certainly would
not marry Lydia if he had not a real regard for her.
Their table was superlatively stupid.
Your sister has been talking to me about him, and asking me a thousand
questions; and I find that the young man quite forgot to tell you, among
his other communication, that he was the son of old Wickham, the late
Mr. Darcy's steward.
He did look at it, and into it for
half-an-hour--was pleased with the situation and the principal
rooms, satisfied with what the owner said in its praise, and took it
immediately.
"I never saw a more promising inclination; he was growing quite
inattentive to other people, and wholly engrossed by her.
My dear Charlotte--impossible!"
Why any fear of detection?
He was received by Mrs.
Bennet with a degree of civility which made her two daughters ashamed,
especially when contrasted with the cold and ceremonious politeness of
her curtsey and address to his friend.
But, whatever may be their own wishes, it is very unlikely
they should have opposed their brother's.
Bingley?"
"I never saw anyone so shocked.
But it is of small importance."
Tease calmness of manner and presence of
mind!
Their reception from Mr. Bennet, to whom they then turned, was not quite
so cordial.
It is a pity they are not handsome!
"And what is fifty miles of good road?
"What is there of good to be expected?"
He has many friends, and
is at a time of life when friends and engagements are continually
increasing."
Collins, you
must marry.
In her kind schemes for Elizabeth, she sometimes planned her marrying
Colonel Fitzwilliam.
But I think Mr. Darcy improves upon acquaintance."
You must write again very soon, and praise him a
great deal more than you did in your last.
In a few days Mr. Bingley returned Mr. Bennet's visit, and sat about
ten minutes with him in his library.
But I wonder how long you
_would_ have gone on, if you had been left to yourself.
But disguise of every sort is my abhorrence.
"Mr. Darcy asked him why he had not married your sister at once.
"My dearest sister, now _be_ serious.
Elizabeth
had hoped that his resentment might shorten his visit, but his plan did
not appear in the least affected by it.
They solaced their wretchedness,
however, by duets after supper, while he could find no better relief
to his feelings than by giving his housekeeper directions that every
attention might be paid to the sick lady and her sister.
Elizabeth related to Jane the next day what had passed between Mr.
Wickham and herself.
were questions with which she amused herself.
He had entertained hopes of being
admitted to a sight of the young ladies, of whose beauty he had
heard much; but he saw only the father.
"She is so fond of Mrs. Forster," said she, "it will be quite shocking
to send her away!
Elizabeth looked
expressively at Lydia; but she, who never heard nor saw anything of
which she chose to be insensible, gaily continued, "Oh!
Elizabeth took the letter from his writing-table, and they went up stairs
together.
They
ran through the vestibule into the breakfast-room; from thence to the
library; their father was in neither; and they were on the point of
seeking him up stairs with their mother, when they were met by the
butler, who said:

"If you are looking for my master, ma'am, he is walking towards the
little copse."
"If he wants our society,
let him seek it.
"I admire the activity of your benevolence," observed Mary, "but every
impulse of feeling should be guided by reason; and, in my opinion,
exertion should always be in proportion to what is required."
what hours of transport
we shall spend!
"But if he returns no more this winter, my choice will never be
required.
I shall not be able to keep
you--and so I warn you.
Elizabeth impatiently caught it from his hand.
Elizabeth was forced to give into a little falsehood here; for to
acknowledge the substance of their conversation was impossible.
I declare after all there is no
enjoyment like reading!
"I wish I could call her amiable.
An invitation to dinner was soon afterwards dispatched; and already
had Mrs. Bennet planned the courses that were to do credit to her
housekeeping, when an answer arrived which deferred it all.
"Not at all.
There is not a
finer county in England than Derbyshire."
At last she recollected
that she had been travelling, and they talked of Matlock and Dove Dale
with great perseverance.
What I have to say relates to poor Lydia.
You _are_ a gentleman's daughter.
Mr. Collins was also in the same state of angry pride.
Her performance was pleasing, though by no means capital.
But to live in ignorance on such a point was impossible; or at least
it was impossible not to try for information.
Jane heard them with horror.
"Mr.
"I did not think Caroline in spirits," were her words, "but she was very
glad to see me, and reproached me for giving her no notice of my coming
to London.
I consider it as one of the first
refinements of polished society."
She stared, coloured,
doubted, and was silent.
We will settle with your father about the money
afterwards; but the things should be ordered immediately."
Lakes, mountains, and rivers shall not be jumbled together in our
imaginations; nor when we attempt to describe any particular scene,
will we begin quarreling about its relative situation.
I
told him of all that had occurred to make my former interference in his
affairs absurd and impertinent.
Why must their
marriage be private?
are
sufficiently known.
Your
reproof, so well applied, I shall never forget: 'had you behaved in a
more gentlemanlike manner.'
Her aunt now called her to look at a picture.
He only meant that there was not
such a variety of people to be met with in the country as in the town,
which you must acknowledge to be true."
The
wish of procuring her regard, which she had assured herself of his
feeling in Derbyshire, could not in rational expectation survive such a
blow as this.
My father and mother knew nothing of that; they only felt how
imprudent a match it must be.
I
must have my share in the conversation if you are speaking of music.
We both know that he has been profligate in every
sense of the word; that he has neither integrity nor honour; that he is
as false and deceitful as he is insinuating."
He must write his own sermons; and the time
that remains will not be too much for his parish duties, and the care
and improvement of his dwelling, which he cannot be excused from making
as comfortable as possible.
He does not
want abilities.
"Why, indeed; he does seem to have had some filial scruples on that
head, as you will hear."
The ladies of Longbourn soon waited on those of Netherfield.
But that
gentleman," looking at Darcy, "seemed to think the country was nothing
at all."
said Mrs. Bennet, shaking her head, "then she is better off than
many girls.
A few weeks, he believed.
"And quite alone?
how I laughed!
"I am
sorry it went off.
But I must tell you how it went off.
There is nothing else to be done.
You will not think of quitting it
in a hurry, I hope, though you have but a short lease."
She
was resolved against any sort of conversation with him, and turned away
with a degree of ill-humour which she could not wholly surmount even in
speaking to Mr. Bingley, whose blind partiality provoked her.
He then sat down by her, and talked scarcely to anyone
else.
Mrs. Bennet assured her that they never sat there after dinner, and then
added:

"May I take the liberty of asking your ladyship whether you left Mr. and
Mrs. Collins well."
Mr. Bennet protested against any
description of finery.
"Pardon me for interrupting you, madam," cried Mr. Collins; "but if
she is really headstrong and foolish, I know not whether she would
altogether be a very desirable wife to a man in my situation, who
naturally looks for happiness in the marriage state.
There--I have saved you the trouble of accounting for
it; and really, all things considered, I begin to think it perfectly
reasonable.
The world has been deceived in that respect; and I am happy to say there
will be some little money, even when all his debts are discharged, to
settle on my niece, in addition to her own fortune.
I wonder what he can be doing there."
He will be forgot, and we shall
all be as we were before."
"_That_ you certainly shall."
He was the proudest, most disagreeable man
in the world, and everybody hoped that he would never come there again.
She now lost every expectation of pleasure.
She would not
even wish for a renewal of his attentions.
In a few days Mr. Bingley returned Mr. Bennet's visit, and sat about
ten minutes with him in his library.
Five daughters brought up at home
without a governess!
An express came at twelve last night, just as we were all gone to bed,
from Colonel Forster, to inform us that she was gone off to Scotland
with one of his officers; to own the truth, with Wickham!
Miss Bennet still looked all amazement.
I believe him to be Lady Catherine's _nephew_.
To the civil inquiries which then
poured in, and amongst which she had the pleasure of distinguishing the
much superior solicitude of Mr. Bingley's, she could not make a very
favourable answer.
I am
no stranger to the particulars of your youngest sister's infamous
elopement.
It must be an amusing study."
He seemed scarcely to hear her, and was walking
up and down the room in earnest meditation, his brow contracted, his air
gloomy.
When the tea-things were removed, and the card-tables placed, the ladies
all rose, and Elizabeth was then hoping to be soon joined by him,
when all her views were overthrown by seeing him fall a victim to her
mother's rapacity for whist players, and in a few moments after seated
with the rest of the party.
When all of the house that was open to general inspection had been seen,
they returned downstairs, and, taking leave of the housekeeper, were
consigned over to the gardener, who met them at the hall-door.
Her hair, so untidy, so blowsy!"
People _did_ say
you meant to quit the place entirely at Michaelmas; but, however, I hope
it is not true.
The manner in which they spoke of the Meryton assembly was sufficiently
characteristic.
For such an attachment
as this she might have sufficient charms; and though she did not suppose
Lydia to be deliberately engaging in an elopement without the intention
of marriage, she had no difficulty in believing that neither her virtue
nor her understanding would preserve her from falling an easy prey.
"I did not think Caroline in spirits," were her words, "but she was very
glad to see me, and reproached me for giving her no notice of my coming
to London.
Mamma would like to
go too of all things!
Mr. Wickham's society was of material service in dispelling the gloom
which the late perverse occurrences had thrown on many of the Longbourn
family.
I would go and see her if I could have the carriage."
His affection for
her soon sunk into indifference; hers lasted a little longer; and
in spite of her youth and her manners, she retained all the claims to
reputation which her marriage had given her.
there is such an expression of goodness in his
countenance!
"But perhaps he may be a little whimsical in his civilities," replied
her uncle.
and so did Mrs.
Forster.
His attentions to Miss King were now the consequence of views solely and
hatefully mercenary; and the mediocrity of her fortune proved no longer
the moderation of his wishes, but his eagerness to grasp at anything.
The farewell between herself and Mr. Wickham was perfectly friendly; on
his side even more.
He had ruined for a while
every hope of happiness for the most affectionate, generous heart in the
world; and no one could say how lasting an evil he might have inflicted.
When that business was over, he applied to Miss Bingley and Elizabeth
for an indulgence of some music.
She will be down in a moment, I dare say."
It was painful, exceedingly painful, to know that they were
under obligations to a person who could never receive a return.
Not that I think
Charlotte so _very_ plain--but then she is our particular friend."
They were excessively sorry to go!
Conjectures as to the meaning of it, rapid and wild, hurried into her
brain; but she was satisfied with none.
Elizabeth coloured, and said: "A little."
And there are several of the young men, too, that she
likes very much.
Mr. Darcy handed the
ladies into the carriage; and when it drove off, Elizabeth saw him
walking slowly towards the house.
"This account then is what he has received from Mr. Darcy.
The astonishment of the ladies was just what he wished; that of Mrs.
Bennet perhaps surpassing the rest; though, when the first tumult of joy
was over, she began to declare that it was what she had expected all the
while.
Nothing less than the complaisance of a courtier could have borne
without anger such treatment; but Sir William's good breeding carried
him through it all; and though he begged leave to be positive as to the
truth of his information, he listened to all their impertinence with the
most forbearing courtesy.
"It must have been his sister's doing.
Those to her mother contained little else than that
they were just returned from the library, where such and such officers
had attended them, and where she had seen such beautiful ornaments as
made her quite wild; that she had a new gown, or a new parasol, which
she would have described more fully, but was obliged to leave off in a
violent hurry, as Mrs. Forster called her, and they were going off to
the camp; and from her correspondence with her sister, there was still
less to be learnt--for her letters to Kitty, though rather longer, were
much too full of lines under the words to be made public.
It is a pity that great ladies
in general are not more like her.
I never heard any harm of her; and I dare
say she is one of the most tractable creatures in the world.
She is up stairs and will have great satisfaction in seeing you
all.
Have you heard from my uncle?"
Be so kind as to apologise for us to Miss Darcy.
Elizabeth's spirits were so high on this occasion, that though she did
not often speak unnecessarily to Mr. Collins, she could not help asking
him whether he intended to accept Mr. Bingley's invitation, and if
he did, whether he would think it proper to join in the evening's
amusement; and she was rather surprised to find that he entertained no
scruple whatever on that head, and was very far from dreading a rebuke
either from the Archbishop, or Lady Catherine de Bourgh, by venturing to
dance.
What will Wickham say?
Recovering himself, however, shortly,
he turned to his partner, and said, "Sir William's interruption has made
me forget what we were talking of."
Who
could have imagined that we should receive an invitation to dine there
(an invitation, moreover, including the whole party) so immediately
after your arrival!"
The conversation soon turned upon fishing; and she heard Mr. Darcy
invite him, with the greatest civility, to fish there as often as he
chose while he continued in the neighbourhood, offering at the same time
to supply him with fishing tackle, and pointing out those parts of
the stream where there was usually most sport.
She respected, she esteemed, she was grateful to him,
she felt a real interest in his welfare; and she only wanted to know how
far she wished that welfare to depend upon herself, and how far it would
be for the happiness of both that she should employ the power, which her
fancy told her she still possessed, of bringing on her the renewal of
his addresses.
I am sick of them all.
Is her husband, is the son of his
late father's steward, to be his brother?
"Mamma," cried Lydia, "my aunt says that Colonel Forster and Captain
Carter do not go so often to Miss Watson's as they did when they first
came; she sees them now very often standing in Clarke's library."
her liveliness had never been worse timed.
When the party broke up, Lydia returned with Mrs. Forster to Meryton,
from whence they were to set out early the next morning.
It was
unpardonable.
Miss Bingley's congratulations to her brother, on his approaching
marriage, were all that was affectionate and insincere.
"Oh!
While the contents of the first
letter remained in her mind, she was all surprise--all astonishment that
Wickham should marry a girl whom it was impossible he could marry
for money; and how Lydia could ever have attached him had appeared
incomprehensible.
And so would Anne, if her health
had allowed her to apply.
As
to his real character, had information been in her power, she had
never felt a wish of inquiring.
To the girls, who could not listen to their cousin,
and who had nothing to do but to wish for an instrument, and examine
their own indifferent imitations of china on the mantelpiece, the
interval of waiting appeared very long.
Mr.
Bingley's defense of his friend was a very able one, I dare say; but
since he is unacquainted with several parts of the story, and has learnt
the rest from that friend himself, I shall venture to still think of
both gentlemen as I did before."
From such a connection she could not wonder that he would shrink.
Jane will be quite an old maid soon, I declare.
After a silence of several minutes, he came towards her
in an agitated manner, and thus began:

"In vain I have struggled.
They were confined for the evening at different tables, and she had
nothing to hope, but that his eyes were so often turned towards her side
of the room, as to make him play as unsuccessfully as herself.
After sitting a little while with Jane, on Miss
Bingley's appearance and invitation, the mother and three daughters all
attended her into the breakfast parlour.
"My dear, do not give way to such gloomy thoughts.
My feelings
are not puffed about with every attempt to move them.
Do let me ask my partner to introduce you."
This invaluable friend was a
very young woman, and very lately married.
It is impossible for _me_
to be impartial.
You blamed me for coming?"
What are you telling Miss Bennet?
It is unaccountable!
Only look at her.
Not
that I care about it, though.
To my fancy, it is only because he does not rattle away
like other young men."
Wickham will never marry a woman without some money.
But do you think she
would be prevailed upon to go back with us?
She talked to Elizabeth again and again;
coaxed and threatened her by turns.
Unwilling as
she was to admit an idea so destructive of Jane's happiness, and so
dishonorable to the stability of her lover, she could not prevent its
frequently occurring.
"It will be _her_ turn soon to be teased," said Miss Lucas.
Since such were her feelings,
it only remained, he thought, to secure and expedite a marriage, which,
in his very first conversation with Wickham, he easily learnt had never
been _his_ design.
"You are severe on us."
"Do you not think it would be a proper compliment to the place?"
Bingley, she had likewise seen for an instant, and in that short period
saw him looking both pleased and embarrassed.
"_You_ want to tell me, and I have no objection to hearing it."
To Jane, he could be only a man whose proposals she had refused,
and whose merit she had undervalued; but to her own more extensive
information, he was the person to whom the whole family were indebted
for the first of benefits, and whom she regarded herself with an
interest, if not quite so tender, at least as reasonable and just as
what Jane felt for Bingley.
"She has only one daughter, the heiress of Rosings, and of very
extensive property."
I found that
Miss Darcy was expected to dinner.
"May we take my uncle's letter to read to her?"
Mr. Bennet could not have chosen
better.
"If it were merely a fine house
richly furnished," said she, "I should not care about it myself; but
the grounds are delightful.
"Louisa, you will not mind my
waking Mr.
Elizabeth reserved to herself the
application for her mother's.
"All this she must possess," added Darcy, "and to all this she must
yet add something more substantial, in the improvement of her mind by
extensive reading."
Mrs. Bennet was profuse in her acknowledgments.
It would look odd to be
entirely silent for half an hour together; and yet for the advantage of
_some_, conversation ought to be so arranged, as that they may have the
trouble of saying as little as possible."
One cannot wonder that so
very fine a young man, with family, fortune, everything in his favour,
should think highly of himself.
All was acknowledged,
and half the night spent in conversation.
All connection
between us seemed now dissolved.
When they sat down to
supper, therefore, she considered it a most unlucky perverseness which
placed them within one of each other; and deeply was she vexed to find
that her mother was talking to that one person (Lady Lucas) freely,
openly, and of nothing else but her expectation that Jane would soon
be married to Mr. Bingley.
would they
often exclaim in the bitterness of woe.
I had not an idea of it."
Lady Catherine, I believe, did a great deal to it when Mr.
Collins first came to Hunsford."
My father and mother knew nothing of that; they only felt how
imprudent a match it must be.
Her character
will be fixed, and she will, at sixteen, be the most determined flirt
that ever made herself or her family ridiculous; a flirt, too, in the
worst and meanest degree of flirtation; without any attraction beyond
youth and a tolerable person; and, from the ignorance and emptiness
of her mind, wholly unable to ward off any portion of that universal
contempt which her rage for admiration will excite.
They have not the same
force or rapidity, and do not produce the same expression.
They soon outstripped the others, and when they had
reached the carriage, Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner were half a quarter of a
mile behind.
What does he say?
I thought it my duty
to give the speediest intelligence of this to my cousin, that she and
her noble admirer may be aware of what they are about, and not run
hastily into a marriage which has not been properly sanctioned.'
"I should take him, even on _my_ slight acquaintance, to be an
ill-tempered man."
Not a syllable had ever reached her of Miss Darcy's
meditated elopement.
"If you were aware," said Elizabeth, "of the very great disadvantage to
us all which must arise from the public notice of Lydia's unguarded and
imprudent manner--nay, which has already arisen from it, I am sure you
would judge differently in the affair."
There was no one, therefore,
who could be pointed out as likely to give any news of him.
But little had
she dared to hope that so much love and eloquence awaited her there.
"Compared with some families, I believe we were; but such of us as
wished to learn never wanted the means.
She inquired into Charlotte's domestic
concerns familiarly and minutely, gave her a great deal of advice as
to the management of them all; told her how everything ought to be
regulated in so small a family as hers, and instructed her as to the
care of her cows and her poultry.
Elizabeth was surprised, but agreed to it immediately.
Her heart had been but slightly touched, and her vanity was satisfied
with believing that _she_ would have been his only choice, had fortune
permitted it.
It would look odd to be
entirely silent for half an hour together; and yet for the advantage of
_some_, conversation ought to be so arranged, as that they may have the
trouble of saying as little as possible."
Daughters
are never of so much consequence to a father.
you are a great deal too apt, you know, to like people in general.
You do not
know what he really is; then pray do not pain me by speaking of him in
such terms."
Anne would have
been a delightful performer, had her health allowed her to learn."
Mr. Bingley does not know the whole of
his history, and is quite ignorant of the circumstances which have
principally offended Mr. Darcy; but he will vouch for the good conduct,
the probity, and honour of his friend, and is perfectly convinced that
Mr. Wickham has deserved much less attention from Mr. Darcy than he has
received; and I am sorry to say by his account as well as his sister's,
Mr. Wickham is by no means a respectable young man.
I was never more annoyed!
Allow me to say, however, that your fair partner does not
disgrace you, and that I must hope to have this pleasure often repeated,
especially when a certain desirable event, my dear Eliza (glancing at
her sister and Bingley) shall take place.
By tea-time, however, the dose had been enough, and Mr. Bennet was glad
to take his guest into the drawing-room again, and, when tea was over,
glad to invite him to read aloud to the ladies.
Everybody is disgusted with his pride.
It has been my own doing,
and I ought to feel it."
That they might have met without
ill consequence is perhaps probable; but his regard did not appear to me
enough extinguished for him to see her without some danger.
Now was the
moment for her resolution to be executed, and, while her courage was
high, she immediately said:

"Mr. Darcy, I am a very selfish creature; and, for the sake of giving
relief to my own feelings, care not how much I may be wounding yours.
Come be quick, be quick!
To
the rest of the family they paid little attention; avoiding Mrs. Bennet
as much as possible, saying not much to Elizabeth, and nothing at all to
the others.
"I am trying to make it out."
"Yes, indeed, and received no inconsiderable pleasure from the sight.
And tell my dear Lydia not to
give any directions about her clothes till she has seen me, for she does
not know which are the best warehouses.
cried he, turning towards her.
my dear, I am quite delighted with him.
He keeps a man-servant, does he?
A regard for the requester would often make
one readily yield to a request, without waiting for arguments to reason
one into it.
And _that_ made the men suspect
something, and then they soon found out what was the matter."
Well, I am sure I shall be extremely glad to see Mr.
Bingley.
It seemed like
wilful ill-nature, or a voluntary penance, for on these occasions it was
not merely a few formal inquiries and an awkward pause and then away,
but he actually thought it necessary to turn back and walk with her.
You must and shall be married by a special licence.
They called at various times of the morning, sometimes
separately, sometimes together, and now and then accompanied by their
aunt.
After many pauses and many trials of other subjects, Elizabeth could not
help reverting once more to the first, and saying:

"I am astonished at his intimacy with Mr. Bingley!
Mr.
My mother was taken ill immediately, and the whole house in
such confusion!"
Oh!
"Oh!
There was no arguing upon such a project.
it is just as he chooses.
With his notions of dignity, he would
probably feel that the arguments, which to Elizabeth had appeared weak
and ridiculous, contained much good sense and solid reasoning.
"Perhaps it will be as well if you discourage his coming here so very
often.
Colonel Forster will, I dare say, do everything in
his power to satisfy us on this head.
He will be forgot, and we shall
all be as we were before."
But as no such delicacy restrained her mother,
an hour seldom passed in which she did not talk of Bingley, express her
impatience for his arrival, or even require Jane to confess that if he
did not come back she would think herself very ill used.
There were two nephews of Lady Catherine to require them, for
Mr. Darcy had brought with him a Colonel Fitzwilliam, the younger son of
his uncle Lord ----, and, to the great surprise of all the party, when
Mr. Collins returned, the gentlemen accompanied him.
pray apologise for my having disliked him so much before.
_You_ wish to think all the
world respectable, and are hurt if I speak ill of anybody.
Lydia--the
humiliation, the misery she was bringing on them all, soon swallowed
up every private care; and covering her face with her handkerchief,
Elizabeth was soon lost to everything else; and, after a pause of
several minutes, was only recalled to a sense of her situation by
the voice of her companion, who, in a manner which, though it spoke
compassion, spoke likewise restraint, said, "I am afraid you have been
long desiring my absence, nor have I anything to plead in excuse of my
stay, but real, though unavailing concern.
Excuse me, for I must speak plainly.
All expectation from the brother was now absolutely over.
And if I am that choice, why may not I accept him?"
They entered the woods, and bidding adieu to the river for a while,
ascended some of the higher grounds; when, in spots where the opening of
the trees gave the eye power to wander, were many charming views of the
valley, the opposite hills, with the long range of woods overspreading
many, and occasionally part of the stream.
Every girl in or near Meryton was out of her senses about him for
the first two months; but he never distinguished _her_ by any particular
attention; and, consequently, after a moderate period of extravagant and
wild admiration, her fancy for him gave way, and others of the regiment,
who treated her with more distinction, again became her favourites."
What does he say?
"She did, indeed, Louisa.
Miss Bingley said something of his never returning to Netherfield
again, of giving up the house, but not with any certainty.
"I cannot see why Mrs. Forster should not ask _me_ as well as Lydia,"
said she, "Though I am _not_ her particular friend.
All was acknowledged,
and half the night spent in conversation.
Mr. Bingley had danced with her twice, and she had been
distinguished by his sisters.
An union of a different tendency, and
precluding the possibility of the other, was soon to be formed in their
family.
One morning, about a week after Bingley's engagement with Jane had been
formed, as he and the females of the family were sitting together in the
dining-room, their attention was suddenly drawn to the window, by the
sound of a carriage; and they perceived a chaise and four driving up
the lawn.
How strange it must appear to him!
Miss Bingley's congratulations to her brother, on his approaching
marriage, were all that was affectionate and insincere.
I, who knew what
he was.
"And men take care that they should."
Mrs. Bennet and Kitty walked off, and as soon as
they were gone, Mr. Collins began.
Lady Catherine approached, and, after listening for a few minutes, said
to Darcy:

"Miss Bennet would not play at all amiss if she practised more, and
could have the advantage of a London master.
Pleased with the preference of one, and offended by the neglect
of the other, on the very beginning of our acquaintance, I have courted
prepossession and ignorance, and driven reason away, where either were
concerned.
A military life is not what I was intended for, but circumstances have
now made it eligible.
After an affectionate
parting between the friends, Elizabeth was attended to the carriage by
Mr. Collins, and as they walked down the garden he was commissioning her
with his best respects to all her family, not forgetting his thanks
for the kindness he had received at Longbourn in the winter, and his
compliments to Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner, though unknown.
She
had spent six weeks with great enjoyment; and the pleasure of being with
Charlotte, and the kind attentions she had received, must make _her_
feel the obliged.
Yet it did, and even a third.
She could see him instantly before
her, in every charm of air and address; but she could remember no more
substantial good than the general approbation of the neighbourhood, and
the regard which his social powers had gained him in the mess.
Darcy had walked away to another part of the room.
Their society can afford no pleasure
that will atone for such wretchedness as this!
And
with no one to speak to about what I felt, no Jane to comfort me and say
that I had not been so very weak and vain and nonsensical as I knew I
had!
"Very well--and this offer of marriage you have refused?"
"And _that_ is quite impossible; for he is now in the custody of his
friend, and Mr. Darcy would no more suffer him to call on Jane in such
a part of London!
The letter which she wrote on this occasion to her sister will
prove what she felt.
Mr. Wickham was so perfectly satisfied with this conversation that he
never again distressed himself, or provoked his dear sister Elizabeth,
by introducing the subject of it; and she was pleased to find that she
had said enough to keep him quiet.
Mr. Collins's return into Hertfordshire was no longer a matter of
pleasure to Mrs. Bennet.
"What you ask," said Elizabeth, "is no sacrifice on my side; and Mr.
Darcy had much better finish his letter."
My total
ignorance of the connection must plead my apology."
"There is, I believe, in every disposition a tendency to some particular
evil--a natural defect, which not even the best education can overcome."
After
pausing on this point a considerable while, she once more continued to
read.
"I hope," added Mrs. Gardiner, "that no consideration with regard to
this young man will influence her.
That he was _surprised_ by the
connection was evident; he sustained it, however, with fortitude, and
so far from going away, turned back with them, and entered into
conversation with Mr. Gardiner.
Her aunt asked her, smilingly, how she liked it.
"It
would be nothing; I could see him with perfect indifference, but I can
hardly bear to hear it thus perpetually talked of.
He could not help
seeing that you were about five times as pretty as every other woman
in the room.
Thoughtless and indiscreet I can easily believe him, but this step
(and let us rejoice over it) marks nothing bad at heart.
I cannot misunderstand you, but I entreat
you, dear Lizzy, not to pain me by thinking _that person_ to blame, and
saying your opinion of him is sunk.
"True," said Mr. Bennet, "but it is a comfort to think that whatever of
that kind may befall you, you have an affectionate mother who will make
the most of it."
When this information was given, and they had all taken their seats, Mr.
Collins was at leisure to look around him and admire, and he was so much
struck with the size and furniture of the apartment, that he declared he
might almost have supposed himself in the small summer breakfast
parlour at Rosings; a comparison that did not at first convey much
gratification; but when Mrs. Phillips understood from him what
Rosings was, and who was its proprietor--when she had listened to the
description of only one of Lady Catherine's drawing-rooms, and found
that the chimney-piece alone had cost eight hundred pounds, she felt all
the force of the compliment, and would hardly have resented a comparison
with the housekeeper's room.
Forgive
me; and if you persist in indifference, do not make me your confidante."
"We are speaking of music, madam," said he, when no longer able to avoid
a reply.
He bore it, however, with admirable calmness.
she cried.
There--I have saved you the trouble of accounting for
it; and really, all things considered, I begin to think it perfectly
reasonable.
In the first place, he must make
such an agreement for tithes as may be beneficial to himself and not
offensive to his patron.
"You have insulted me in every possible method.
Mr. Darcy, with grave propriety, requested to be allowed the honour of
her hand, but in vain.
My aunt Phillips came to Longbourn
on Tuesday, after my father went away; and was so good as to stay till
Thursday with me.
"His manners are very different from his cousin's."
But in such cases as
these, a good memory is unpardonable.
"You appear to me, Mr. Darcy, to allow nothing for the influence of
friendship and affection.
Elizabeth, however, did not choose
to take the hint, being well aware that a serious dispute must be the
consequence of any reply.
With
these rooms I might now have been familiarly acquainted!
It was
the last of the regiment's stay in Meryton, and all the young ladies
in the neighbourhood were drooping apace.
Let them triumph over us at a distance, and be satisfied."
"There was just such an informality in the terms of the bequest as to
give me no hope from law.
Lydia's going to Brighton was all that consoled her for her melancholy
conviction of her husband's never intending to go there himself.
With no greater events than these in the Longbourn family, and otherwise
diversified by little beyond the walks to Meryton, sometimes dirty and
sometimes cold, did January and February pass away.
He even looked at her with a smile of affected incredulity.
It was all pride and
insolence.
"Do let us have a little music," cried Miss Bingley, tired of a
conversation in which she had no share.
"I hope not so.
would they
often exclaim in the bitterness of woe.
"Well, my dear," said Mr. Bennet, when Elizabeth had read the note
aloud, "if your daughter should have a dangerous fit of illness--if she
should die, it would be a comfort to know that it was all in pursuit of
Mr. Bingley, and under your orders."
Has he deigned to add aught of civility
to his ordinary style?--for I dare not hope," he continued in a lower
and more serious tone, "that he is improved in essentials."
She looked at
Jane, to see how she bore it; but Jane was very composedly talking to
Bingley.
"MY DEAR NIECE,

"I have just received your letter, and shall devote this whole morning
to answering it, as I foresee that a _little_ writing will not comprise
what I have to tell you.
Whenever Charlotte came to see
them, she concluded her to be anticipating the hour of possession; and
whenever she spoke in a low voice to Mr. Collins, was convinced that
they were talking of the Longbourn estate, and resolving to turn herself
and her daughters out of the house, as soon as Mr. Bennet were dead.
Sir William did not say much.
Every savage can dance."
And who knows what _may_ happen?
Family pride, and _filial_ pride--for he is very proud of what
his father was--have done this.
he is the handsomest young man that
ever was seen!"
The only pain was in leaving her father, who would certainly miss her,
and who, when it came to the point, so little liked her going, that he
told her to write to him, and almost promised to answer her letter.
"I should never have said Mrs. Collins
was settled _near_ her family."
I never heard of such a thing.
Oh!
Mr. Bennet protested against any
description of finery.
"Yes, indeed, his friends may well rejoice in his having met with one
of the very few sensible women who would have accepted him, or have made
him happy if they had.
"You must not blame my aunt.
"He made a little mistake to be sure; but it is to the credit of his
modesty."
She was sure they should be married some time or
other, and it did not much signify when.
"No, not at all."
But they are very pleasing women when you
converse with them.
Their fortune on
both sides is splendid.
When a woman has five
grown-up daughters, she ought to give over thinking of her own beauty."
To Mr. Bennet's
acknowledgments he briefly replied, with assurance of his eagerness to
promote the welfare of any of his family; and concluded with entreaties
that the subject might never be mentioned to him again.
"In what an amiable light does this place him!"
His former acquaintances had been numerous; but since he
had been in the militia, it did not appear that he was on terms of
particular friendship with any of them.
"You are over-scrupulous, surely.
I need not explain myself farther; and though _we_ know
this anxiety to be quite needless, yet if she feels it, it will easily
account for her behaviour to me; and so deservedly dear as he is to
his sister, whatever anxiety she must feel on his behalf is natural and
amiable.
You have deprived the best years of his life of that independence
which was no less his due than his desert.
"Oh!
The envelope contained a sheet of elegant, little,
hot-pressed paper, well covered with a lady's fair, flowing hand; and
Elizabeth saw her sister's countenance change as she read it, and saw
her dwelling intently on some particular passages.
But you would not wish to be dancing when she is ill."

Lydia declared herself satisfied.
"With my mother up stairs.
At Brighton she will be of less importance
even as a common flirt than she has been here.
Yet he is _such_ a man!"
"Not one."
She now lost every expectation of pleasure.
The families who had been in town for the winter came
back again, and summer finery and summer engagements arose.
