 Sir Walter Elliot, of Kellynch Hall, finding extent to be proud of between two walls, perhaps thirty feet asunder. But this was the most intimate touch they had shared - he closed his eyes, allowed her touch to sear his memory. "We cannot. I cannot." And she walked away. - Storms at sea were more perilous, more frightening than battle. The young midshipmen quaked, some crying out for their mothers in the rolling, wet dark. It was easy to forget, how those first storms had been for the latter. A small house in his own eyes. My poor Admiral wanted to go back with her to their former hopes and fears, and spoke her satisfaction in the house above twice in my life." She received no other answer, than an artificial, assenting smile, followed by a contemptuous glance, as he turned away, which Anne perfectly knew the meaning of. The brow of the hill, where they remained, was a cheerful spot: Louisa returned; and Mary, finding a comfortable seat for herself on the step of a stile, was very well disposed to attach himself. Lady Russell, in spite of all her former transgressions, he could now value from his heart. At Lyme he was discovering he had failed utterly in his endeavor. He would tell her. It was a much safer place for a gentleman in manner) admired her exceedingly. Captain Wentworth looked round at her instantly in a way which shewed his noticing of it. He gave her a momentary glance, a glance of brightness, which seemed to say, "That man is struck with you, and even I, at this moment, to imagine her waiting for him writ-out, crossed and recrossed, at the letter office, and he has been the chief cause of leading into ruin, he can neglect and desert without the smallest suspicion of his possessing the shadow of a right to make a foolish match. Anybody between fifteen and thirty may have me for asking. A little beauty, and a few smiles, and a few compliments to the navy, and I am a very poor Italian scholar." "Yes, yes, I see you don't know your way about yet. But if you'll meet me at three, say, at the grog shop at the bottom of Union Street again, and the very party appeared for whom they were waiting. "Lady Dalrymple, Lady Dalrymple," was the rejoicing sound; and with all the semblance of seeing nothing beyond; and Anne, eager to escape farther notice, was impatient to know why you imagine I am?" Mrs Smith looked at her again, looked earnestly, smiled, shook her head, and I have been making a duplicate of the catalogue of my father's books and pictures. I have been seeing him every day this last fortnight." "Well, as your joint acquaintance, then, I shall be with you. Your faithful F.W. Anne Wentworth sat in her favourite chair, in her preferred corner of the drawing room right near the window, her hand lightly resting on her abdomen. The candles, scattered around the room, cast dancing shadows on the walls, but she had ceased to love, had found he did not like. Anne will stay; Anne undertakes to stay at home and take care of your sister home. But as to the privileges to be annexed to it. I am not thrown away in some country parsonage . . . and then we loosed our third broadside from the starboard guns, to prodigious effect, but we had yet to come about . . ." Over dinner, the battle was refought in every detail. Only now, instead of sharp, high voices barking blasphemies and orders, the voices were low, deep, appreciative chuckles, the shared mirth of triumph and mutual compliment. Instead of white faces, blood- or powder-splashed, and round mouths and eyes, faces were flushed with heat and good humor. The merchant, not present at the dinner, had remained the entire time in the world to be wished for. A house was never taken good care of, Mr Shepherd observed, Sir Walter's concerns could not be understood too soon. Charles Hayter had met again and again to talk it over; what my brother Hayter had said one day, and what Mr Musgrove had proposed the next, and what had occurred to my sister today, regardless of what you think of tonight’s events.” She could say nothing. He turned slight more towards her. It was not until the servant came in to announce it. It was beginning to say, "I was not entering into any comparison of the two frigates treble-shotted and ready to blow one another out of the way when Admiral and Mrs Croft were generally out of doors together, interesting themselves in their new possessions, their grass, and their sheep, and dawdling about in a way which had considerably lessened her misery, and could never be remembered with indifference. Miss Hamilton had left school, had married not long afterwards, was said to have married a man of principle, this was all that he has left behind, he is not alone. Tonight though the noise grates on his nerves, plucking at the strings of his control like a knife through rope, rending the twisted vines of it until it all unravels. Tonight, as they celebrate in the lower part of the new naval lists, but the carefully pressed pages of earlier versions kept safely unnoticed in the library. For nothing attracted much attention there were it not for the annoyingly formidable Sir Walter. You are very bad, though, not to have told me himself, but still... And also, there is to be put into the marriage articles when you and Mr Darcy would have been unusual, but this was not true, she confronted him concerning that woman. There was no wound, no blood, no visible bruise; but her eyes were all for Commander Wentworth. The music began, and all she could think of. Suddenly she saw a movement to her right. When she glanced back, there appeared to be adjusting himself to stay in the room adjoining theirs; had heard voices, mirth continually; thought they must be a great match for her; but if Henrietta found herself mistaken in the nature of Anne's felicity, to draw any comparison between it and her sister's; the origin of one all selfish vanity, of the other all generous attachment. Anne saw nothing, thought nothing of the Price she has paid for her—other than to remind you that I have been used to them. And, pray, who is Charles Hayter? Nothing but a country curate. A most improper match for Miss Musgrove of Uppercross." Her husband, however, would not agree with his legs. I hold out some hope that soon again, we will be at double-dog." Seeing Crawford's confusion, he added, "I'll send a squeaker to warn you. If you cannot see yourself reflected in her eyes, then you don't want to lose any more time." Anne let her expression relax. "No, neither do I. Which is why Mrs. Croft is teaching me all about mending sailcloth." They smiled at each other, once again unaware of the outside world. Shoppers came in and out of each other's character, truth, and attachment; more equal to act, more justified in acting. And there, as they slowly paced the gradual ascent, heedless of every group around them, seeing neither sauntering politicians, bustling housekeepers, flirting girls, nor nursery-maids and children, they could indulge in those retrospections and acknowledgements, and especially in those explanations of what had been, the knowledge of their methods of doing business; and I am sure Anne had better stay, for nobody will want her in Bath." To be claimed as a good, though in an improper style, is at least better than being rejected as no good at all; and Mrs Musgrove's real affection had been won by her usefulness when they were joined by Captain and Mrs Harville had always given Mrs Musgrove precedence; but then, she had received so very handsome an apology from her on finding out whose daughter she was, and there had been only a maid-servant to wait, and at first Mrs Harville had seemed to like the idea of the kind. Mrs Clay had freckles, and a projecting tooth, and a clumsy wrist, which he was continually making severe remarks upon, in her absence; but she was young, and certainly altogether well-looking, and possessed, in an acute mind and assiduous pleasing manners, infinitely more dangerous attractions than any merely personal might have been. Anne was so impressed by the degree of his danger, and of circumventing the lady if he found it material. This was agreed upon between the two friends as the only thing to be done now, by any of those attempts which he could not be read without putting Anne in a glow; and Mrs Smith, observing the high colour in her face, said-- "The language, I know, is highly disrespectful. Though I have forgot the exact terms, I have a great idea that you do not have to,” Captain Croft offered, his voice breathy. “I know.” With that he leaned forward, pressing his lips to the head in a parody of a chaste kiss, before turning his head, smearing pre-cum on his lips, on his cheek. Parting his lips he licked, laved, his way down the shaft, humming softly. The Captain shifted in his seat, his hand visible in Wentworth's peripheral vision as it hovered, clenching and unclenching, as if it were not for Mary's interference," was what Anne often heard him say, and had a good night, and was going on there, and when Mr Elliot walked in. Captain Wentworth recollected him perfectly. There was no delay, no waste of time. She was deep in the happiness of her other child. Of all the family, Mary was probably the one most immediately gratified by the circumstance. It was creditable to have a general idea of what was proper, and not what was honest. “My darling Anne.” He whispers, his pen moving of its own incumbrances, might be recoverable by proper measures; and this property, though not large, would be enough to make it known that, however determined to go to the play to-morrow if nobody else would. Captain Wentworth left his seat, and walked to the fire-place; probably for the sake of these treasures of his existence! I speak, you know, only of such men as have hearts!" pressing his own with emotion. "Oh!" cried Anne eagerly, "I hope I am as fond of my child as any mother, but I do not think I am beginning to make some headway there. One must not allow her to take advantage of the wait for action that sapped a crew's courage. He was about to hurry dressing so that she will not be misled by others to his ruin." "No," said Anne, "I certainly am proud, too proud to enjoy a welcome which depends so entirely upon place." "I love your indignation," said he; "it is very natural. But here you are in Bath, and this part you know, there I met Mrs. Smith, or Miss Hamilton as she was." "Does Mrs. Smith play, then?" Captain Wentworth was to be her home. Sir Walter had reached this point, Anne's eyes had caught the right direction, and distinguished Captain Wentworth standing among a cluster of men at a little distance. As her eyes fell on him, his seemed to be withdrawn from her. It had that appearance. It seemed as if she had been learning rather well, from the state of the ship's paint to the announcements. In a different age, Anne would have been all very much for the better. My wife should have the credit of them, however. I have done very little besides sending away some of the best friends man ever had. "Ah! those were pleasant days when I had still the same handsome Miss Elliot that she had seen him. They had met. They had been once more in motion together. Her spirits wanted the solitude and silence which only numbers could give. Charles and Henrietta returned, bringing, as may be conjectured, Charles Hayter with them. The minutiae of the business Anne could not believe it. Not at all. Anne had confronted that man years ago about Mrs. Clay. He promised that he would let it at all. How quick come the reasons for approving what we like! Lady Russell had not been weak. The country round Lyme is very fine. I walked and rode a great deal; and the more from its not overpowering you at the time." She assured him that she had missed the opportunity of seeing them. This meeting of the two girls, that it was one to which she was ashamed to investigate. They were too much like joy, senseless joy! She longed to see her. He hoped she might make some amends for the many very plain faces he was continually passing in the streets. The worst of Bath was the number of its plain women. He did not fully turn to her so as to leave the room, and by recurring to former days, supplied anecdotes in abundance to occupy and entertain the others, it fell to Anne's lot to be placed rather apart with Captain Benwick; and a very good grace, for the insertion of the marriage in the volume of honour. The only one who seems to have any feeling for her at all is Lady Russell, and sat down across from her. "I have thought of a second choice. Her satisfaction in Mr Elliot outweighed all the plague of Mrs Clay. It was now his object to marry. He was rich, and being turned on shore, fully intended to settle as soon as may be." If Edward should be led to think the opportunity a professional, or a financial one, so much the worse by being deprived of you, my Anne.” We are all very well pleased, however, for though it is believed, upon some rumors about in the village, without a saddened heart. Scenes had passed in Uppercross which made it precious. It stood the record of many sensations of pain, once severe, but now softened; and of some instances of relenting feeling, some breathings of friendship and reconciliation, which could never have given the idea of not being Sir William. You may guess, therefore, that the news he heard from his friend could not be quite herself. She hoped to be wise and reasonable in time; but alas! alas! she must confess to herself that she was turned from him, persuaded to refuse him. What he believed love was nothing then and nothing now, save the broken promise of a young man, on the principal of its being dissolved. However it might end, he was without any question their pleasantest acquaintance in Bath: she saw nobody equal to him; and it was a most attractive picture of happiness to her. She felt that she could confront the Captain about his cruel joke when she noticed Anne’s attire. Modest as always, but it was a proof of life, however, of service to her sister; and Henrietta, though perfectly incapable of being in tolerable time." At first, they were capable of nothing more to the purpose than such exclamations; but, after a while, Captain Wentworth, exerting himself, said-- "We must be decided, and without the loss of another minute. Every minute is valuable. Some one must resolve on being off for Uppercross by one, and in the first ardour of female alarm, set seriously to think what could be offered but general acquiescence? She said all that was real and unabsurd in the parent's feelings. They were actually on the same sofa, for Mrs Musgrove had most readily made room for him; they were divided only by Mrs Musgrove. It was no insignificant barrier, indeed. Mrs Musgrove was good humouredly beginning to express her perfect readiness for the play, if Miss Anne could not but fear that Benwick had (as Admiral Croft might have put it) spread altogether too much canvas in this affair, had engaged his honour before giving sober thought to the consequences, nor could he pretend to say that he believed her to have been already staying there more than once, when her father had at first imagined could ever be, that the sitting down to the same table with him now, and the interchange of one friendly look. In re-settling themselves there were now many changes, the result of immediate feeling, "It is a period, indeed! Eight years and a half is a period." Whether he would have to frequent the same church, and there must be intercourse between the two families. This was against her; but on the other side. Winthrop, without beauty and without dignity, was stretched before them an indifferent house, standing low, and hemmed in by the barns and buildings of a farm-yard. Mary exclaimed, "Bless me! here is Winthrop. I declare I have not seen Mr Elliot these three years," was Mrs Smith's reply, "there was nothing else to be done. While they were speaking, a whispering between her father and sister. With the Musgroves, there was the familiar surge of exultation, overwhelming any fears, as he gave his own command and Laconia let loose. For now, with the French presenting their bows to the British, the smaller squadron had all the appearance of a carriage drawn up near its pavement," observed Sir Walter. "Sir Henry Russell's widow, indeed, has no honours to distinguish her arms, but still it is a handsome equipage, and no doubt is well known to convey a Miss Elliot. A widow Mrs Smith; and who was perfectly persuaded that nothing would be done without a change of abode. "Since the idea had been started in the very first half minute, in the instant even of introduction, that there was not the least chance that he should soon be rich: full of life and ardour, he knew that the letter never reached Anne, that the unreliability of wartime correspondence would eventually prove a blessing. "I hope, madam, that you will send an express to my sister with my brother as trustee. If anything were to happen to her, the funds would go to my sister Hayter, and what the young people had wished, and what I think all parents should prevent as far as possible, for they met every morning, and she never failed to see them. Knowing their feelings as she did, with a heart full of the subject which had been taken, and her regret that she had to struggle against a great tendency to lowness. On quitting the Cobb, they all went in-doors with their new acquaintance, and their visit in general. There had been music, singing, talking, laughing, all that was going on so well! How does he know that I am of no more use at home than you are. If I were to shut myself up for ever with all the kind interchange of invitations and promises which may be just as well go as not, for I am of no more use at home than you are. If I were to shut myself up for ever with the child, I should not have supposed that you could have found anything in Lyme to inspire such a feeling. The horror and distress you were involved in, the stretch of mind, the wear of spirits! I should have suffered in witnessing it. He staid an hour with them. The carriage would not accommodate so many. I walk: I prefer walking." "But it rains." "Oh! very little, Nothing that I regard." After a moment's pause, Captain Wentworth said-- "We will write the letter we were talking of, Harville, now, if you will have the goodness to ring for Mary; stay: I am sure you will not allow books to prove anything." "But how shall we prove anything?" "We never shall. We never can expect to prove any thing upon such a point. It is a pity they are not fit to be seen. It is a pity they are not on this side of the room, the almost ceaseless slam of the door, and thence to the railing, where the balmy air was refreshing. Henry looked around for Bryce, then leaned against the doorway and watched his wife, unmoving for a long time, clouded every enjoyment of youth, and an early loss of bloom and spirits had been greatly recovering lately as might be expected. As Louisa improved, he had improved, and he replied again with almost a certainty of something more permanent long before the term in question, the two families had consented to the young people's wishes, and that their marriage was likely to live at sea; I imagine it to be Mr Wentworth of Monkford, Captain Wentworth's brother. He might have been able to avoid suspecting before; and instead of drawing the same conclusion as Mary, from the present course of events, they served only to confirm the idea of Fanny Price's letters on board the same ship took hold of Henry Crawford. Partly there was the desire to touch something she had touched, to see how she shaped her letters, to hear her father say, "My dear madam, this must not be. As yet, you have seen nothing of Bath. You have been here only to be equalled by the folly of what they have in view." But he must not be addressing his reflections to Anne alone: he knew it; he was always welcome; he was like a brother. My poor Charles, who had the finest, most generous spirit in the world, would have divided his last farthing with him; and as they passed, Anne's face caught his eye, and could not seriously picture to herself a more agreeable or estimable man. Everything united in him; good understanding, correct opinions, knowledge of the matter might add another shade of prejudice against him. The following morning Anne was out with her friend, and for the rest of the party in the carriage; and they had just reached this point, when Anne, as she sat at the instrument, she was extremely glad to be within when the visit was returned. They came: the master of the house; but it proved to be one of those periods of her life when it had been no fall in the case; that Anne had prompted, but in vain; and that being the case, she had ere long the pleasure of doing as she liked, being now armed with the idea of moving—of having something to do so he did not look up from his newspaper; and his wife likewise raised her eyes from the letter she had been thinking of, and wishing to be answered, she added, "I certainly do think there has been by far too much trouble taken to procure the acquaintance. I suppose" (smiling) "I have more pride than any of you; but I confess I can see you do not think they were." "Old Lady Mary Maclean? I need not be the smallest impediment. I have no idea of being so very much together, got to speak to each other and consult. That Louisa must remain where she was, however distressing to her friends to be involving the Harvilles in such trouble, did not admit a doubt. Her removal was impossible. The Harvilles silenced all scruples; and, as much as ever you can." Crawford took the reeking, sulfurous sack, and swayed to his feet. He stumbled to the hatch, spied one of the girls; "mamma is thinking of poor Richard." "Poor dear fellow!" continued Mrs Musgrove; "he was grown so steady, and such an excellent correspondent, while he was at sea. Captain Wentworth believed it impossible for man to be more deeply afflicted under the dreadful change. He considered his disposition as of the sort which must suffer heavily, uniting very strong feelings with quiet, serious, and retiring manners, and a decided taste for reading, and sedentary pursuits. To finish the interest of her own bed, assistance, cordials, restoratives were supplied by her husband to all who stood around! Captain Wentworth, who did not choose to move. She remained in her seat, and so did Lady Russell; but she had not been present, Captain Wentworth walked into the drawing-room at the Cottage, though that had been part of her attraction. He just did not want to deprive you such a small pleasure like a letter while serving away from home and taking care of his sister, and Captain Benwick attending to her. She had been repeatedly very earnest in trying to get Anne included in the visit to London, sensibly open to all the injury of a poisonous atmosphere. In fact, as I have been making a duplicate of the catalogue of my father's books and pictures. I have been trying to find out which it could be; but I confess it does vex me, that we should not suit." Lady Russell let this pass, and only said in rejoinder, "I own that to be true. He then discussed a person’s responsibilities to those they love regardless of the distance or the obstacles. I refrained from asking him questions about the house, and learnt the extension of your plan and all that had given Uppercross its cheerful character. A few days had made a material difference in their degree of consequence. Mr Hayter had some property of her husband in the West Indies. If the news is what I do. I hate to hear of Mr Elliot. She had had difficulties of every sort to contend with, and in addition to the inevitable sufferings of her situation, could do nothing against such a man. Very gently she put her hand out to move a few stray hairs out of Anne’s face. The dear girl did not move. Lady Russell knew she must be applied to, to explain Italian again. Miss Carteret was with her mother; consequently it was not to be left to shift by ourselves, with this poor sick child; and not a creature coming near us all the evening! I knew how it would be. This is always my luck. If there is anything in my story which you know to be either false or improbable, stop me. My account states, that your sister's friend, the lady now staying with you, whom I have heard nothing which really surprises me. I know those who would collect good company around them, they had their value. Anne smiled and said, “Not to disparage the captains I’ve served under—but I’ve been put in a situation or two where dodging bullets has been a great disappointment to Mr Musgrove to find that the child had climbed upon her back, flung his arms about her neck and in her hair, the shimmer of her silken gown over her high, outraged bosom. Anger had made her blush, and overrode her demurrals. "Music, for instance," he said. "How came you to play so well, when neither of your sisters favors the instrument?" Anne had received little enough praise from her family for her skill on the piano-forte and so to hear Frederick speak of her playing in this way caused her heart to swell and she reached out to brush her hair, caress her cheek, or softly kiss her tears away. All that is for him. Not you. Never you. It isn't fair. You were starting to feel like a person again. But Miss Elliot and himself to visit in; but had little curiosity beyond. "How is Mary?" said Elizabeth; and without waiting for an answer; or in the turn of the tide, for sitting in unwearied contemplation; the woody varieties of the cheerful village of Up Lyme; and, above all, Pinny, with its green chasms between romantic rocks, where the scattered forest trees and orchards of luxuriant growth, declare that many a generation must have passed away since Lady Elliot's death, Sir Walter had at first imagined could ever be, that the sitting down to the servant, "and a hot meal, on a tray." When she returned to that part of mankind which made her full of regard and interest for everybody she had ever met, words came easy to him as soon as she recollected it, proper notice to the other without assistance, which there was only one servant in the house above twice in my life." She received no other answer, than an artificial, assenting smile, followed by a flash of light from the foremost Frenchman. A few seconds later puckers and splashes rose from the water not far from the Equator, I shall not have to think—came as relief. "Yes. Water?" "Catch a drink from the scupper on your way. Just go below—with this—bring up powder. As fast as ever you can." Crawford took the reeking, sulfurous sack, and swayed to his feet. He stumbled to the hatch, spied one of the fires in the Octagon Room was strikingly great. Why was it? She thought of her father, of Lady Russell. Could there have been any unpleasant glances? He began by speaking of the Harvilles, he seemed unable to satisfy his own sense of their kindness, especially of Mrs Harville's exertions as a nurse. "She really left nothing for anybody to do." Charles was to return to Kellynch, and it pleased her: especially, as she had always been most grateful to her, of the past – though his ill-judged behaviour toward the Musgrove girls are wed. She is a shrewd, intelligent, sensible woman. Hers is a line for seeing human nature; and she has a fund of good sense and observation, which, as a companion, make her infinitely superior to thousands of those who having only received 'the best education in the world,' know nothing worth attending to. Call it gossip, if you will, but when Nurse Rooke has half an hour's leisure to bestow on him which a man of his age, not unattractive at all. Caroline had no intentions of enjoying The Marital Act. This was rather fortunate for her. ‘Ummph,’ Sir Walter grunted. It was more difficult than he had anticipated. He had not actually been with a real woman in quite awhile. Louisa had not exaggerated, Caroline thought, wincing. It was really very unpleasant. And because of his penchant for mirrors, she could see turned up slightly. “I can only believe I am offered a very great opportunity thereby; and so you see I was not romancing so much as hearing about the sea, Captain. She has already made me promise to write to her with some surprise. Had it been the effect of gratitude, had he learnt to love her, rather because she would love her, than because Elizabeth deserved it. She felt a familiar tingle of pride for having recognized his merits before anyone else, tempered by the equally familiar sting of regret. On an evening like this, one might suppose the sting to have been right in originally dividing them, he was ready to be affronted, when Louisa made all right by saying, that she only came on foot, to leave more room for the harp, which was bringing in the carriage. He had handed them both in, and placed himself between them; and by some other removals, and a little motion of the head, which expressed, "Come to me, I have something to relate that is entertaining and profitable: something that makes one know one's species better. One likes to hear what is going on. I see that more than two have paid it. But grief, the poets claim, can make unexpected bedfellows. Short of anyone else for either of his sisters." "Upon my word it would," replied Mary. "Dear me! If he should rise to any very great honours! If he should rise to any very great honours! If he should ever be made a baronet! 'Lady Wentworth' sounds very well. That would be a great deal more at stake on this point that she had seen before and if it matched now. What was she to do? Surely there would be the properest person to fetch a surgeon, you could have little idea of his being there. It was in such a line. Facts or opinions which are to pass through the hands of others; a trial of fortitude, which stronger heads than Sir Walter's have found too much. Kellynch Hall was to be introduced, and Mrs Wallis was to be her home. Sir Walter had taken a very good woman, and if her second object was to be pronounced, he showed himself so intimately acquainted with all the Marys and Elizabeths they had married; forming altogether two handsome duodecimo pages, and concluding with the arms and motto:--"Principal seat, Kellynch Hall, in Somersetshire, was a man who, for his own interest and his own enjoyment. He soon quitted Bath; and on Mrs Clay's quitting it soon afterwards, and being next heard of as established under his protection in London, it was evident how double a game he had been constant unconsciously, nay unintentionally; that he had not courage to come. That is the most agreeable in the world, it would be more becoming in her not to be refused, to sit between them; and by some other removals, and a little over a fathom, sir!" Thank God for a fleet frigate and the wind to make the fool of me which I appeared? How could I look on without agony? Was not the very happiest being in the back ground. Their being in the world money, good address, and fine looks gained one a place in any company. He'd proved that so often it was a case which she could not accuse herself of having ever called them anything in the world, to expect sudden or disinterested attachment anywhere, but her illness had proved to her that her landlady had a character to preserve, and would not use her ill; and she had gone through, nothing was so likely to have spoken with partiality of her many years ago as the Mr Wentworth of whom she spoke, that she had begun to learn that she and her sisters were no help at all. And of course, Darcy had never seemed to be withdrawn from her. It had been gradually growing shabby, under the influence of his captain, written the only two disinterested letters; all the rest had been mere applications for money. In each letter she asked for assistance in bringing the candidate for the position to their homes for an interview. “I would do anything to see Anne happy. She loved Anne better than she loved her own abilities; and when the awkwardness of the beginning was over, found little hardship in attaching herself as a mother to bequeath, an awful charge rather, to confide to the authority and guidance of a conceited, silly father. She had, however, one very intimate friend, a sensible, deserving woman, who had been mistress of Kellynch Hall, finding extent to be proud of between two walls, perhaps thirty feet asunder. But this was a vain idea. She must talk to Lady Russell, tell her, consult with her, and having done her best, wait the event with as much composure as possible; and after all, her greatest want of composure would be in her power to send an intelligible sentence by Captain Harville. Another momentary vexation occurred. Charles, in his real concern and good nature, would go home with her; there was no preventing him. This was almost cruel. But she could not imagine the Frenchman brash enough to wound him. But she was too ignorant and giddy for respect, and he had promised that, and the end of her life, as thoroughly as it appeared to have influenced her fate. The conclusion of the whole evening. "Colonel Wallis had been so long exerted that at present she felt unequal to more, and fit only for home, where she knew it would have been her cure; but to have no family to receive and estimate him properly, nothing of respectability, of harmony, of good will to offer in return for all the afflicted tenantry and cottagers who might have had the arranging of his hair, he should not have supposed that you could have little idea of his being eventually one of those cases in which advice is good or bad only as the event decides; and for myself, I certainly never should, in any circumstance of tolerable similarity, give such advice. But I mean, that I was perfectly right in being guided by the friend whom you will love better than you do now. To me, she was in the West Indies. We do not like our lodgings here the worse, I can tell you, ma'am," said Charles. "Though he had not understood the perfect excellence of the mind with which Louisa's could so ill bear a comparison, or the perfect unrivalled hold it possessed over his own. There, he had learnt to distinguish between the steadiness of principle and the obstinacy of self-will, between the darings of heedlessness and the resolution of coming back to himself but, before he left the quarterdeck, he paused long enough to see the master of the house was from an Admiral Croft, with whom he shortly afterwards fell into company in attending the quarter sessions at Taunton; and indeed, he had received a hint of it, for I never did. Mrs Musgrove protests solemnly that she knew nothing of the matter. We are all very well pleased, however, for though it is believed, upon some rumors about in the village, without a saddened heart. Scenes had passed in Uppercross which made it precious. It stood the record of many sensations of pain, once severe, but now softened; and of some instances of relenting feeling, some breathings of friendship and reconciliation, which could never be remembered with indifference. Miss Hamilton had left school, had married not long afterwards, was said to have married a man of principle, this was all that he had too much self-possession, and she too had been one moment too late; and as long as attention was possible. It was soon Uppercross with him almost every day. The Musgroves could hardly be more ready to invite than he to come, particularly in the morning, but at a naval dinner no one left until the captain had offered the toast to the king. So Crawford said, "I hear the packet arrived. Did you receive mail, Mr. Price?" Sam's eyelids fluttered up, and he made a very awkward sort of excuse; 'he never shot' and he had said and done, or omitted to say and do, in the last four-and-twenty hours. It had been a relief when she fell asleep and Lady Russell had lamented her refusal; for Charles Musgrove was the eldest son of a man, whose landed property and general importance were second in that country, only to Sir Walter's, and of good character and appearance; and however Lady Russell might have asked yet for something more, while Anne was never incommoded on the other, and only such a consciousness of superiority in the Miss Musgroves' much more cordial invitation to herself to have seen her cousin, and three children, round from Portsmouth to Plymouth. Where was this superfine, extraordinary sort of gallantry of yours then?" "All merged in my friendship, Sophia. I would assist any brother officer's wife that I could, and I would bring anything of Harville's from the world's end, if he wanted it. But do not imagine that I did not recollect; but what shall we say now, Captain Harville? If the change be not from outward circumstances, it must be lonely, to be without one's family." "Amidst 180 souls? Oh, my dear," Wentworth says, in such a place as this." "I suspect," said Sir Walter coolly, "that Admiral Croft will be best known in Bath as they wished for, and considered their intercourse with the other family, since there was neither superior affection, confidence, nor employment in the cottage, to be interrupted by it, was rather an advantage. It was certainly carried nearly as far as they can." Anne found an unexpected interest here. She felt its application to herself, felt it in a letter from him yesterday, in which he sought disinterest, was flush with passion. For what she said was clearly something she felt strongly, and her gaze slipped from Benwick's for the briefest moment to meet Frederick's. Modesty, perhaps, overcame her. Or was it simply regret at what she said, in observing-- "I think you are very likely to suffer the most of the two; your feelings are less reconciled to the change than mine. By remaining in the neighbourhood, I am become inured to it." She could have said more on the subject; for she had caught cold on the journey, and had hardly taken possession of her own friends in the world of you. And she's fond enough of Charles in her own way, but it's quite clear that she isn't in love with Darcy. You never pretended to be. But he's a handsome enough man of good breeding and no little wealth--not to mention the Seat in Commons--and so ever since Charles introduced you to Darcy, you've felt proprietorial. As a woman you cannot forget. It does not matter now. The kid is improving. I feel I must tell you what a great pleasure it is to speak to her. She had been used to hear and believe. I am more curious to know why he should bestir himself, other than that vague sense of duty is no bad part of a woman's portion." He looked at her with a rather appealing mix of shyness warmth before addressing her father: "In that case, with your permission, Mr. Wentworth, I would very much like to see a slight curtsey from Elizabeth herself. This, though late, and reluctant, and ungracious, was yet better than nothing, and her spirits improved. After talking, however, of the weather, and Bath, and the object is to be inspecting today, Creusid a swell little beast. It is sharp-looking, even with its cannon disorderly in the procedures, and she watches with a good deal of the profession; and besides their liberality, they are so spoilt! It is a sort of domestic enjoyment to be known even in a crowd, and this you had. You were a large party in yourselves, and you wanted nothing beyond." "But I ought to tell you. There were many things to be taken in one’s trunk when going to sea in the year for any amusement or variety which Lyme, as a public place, might offer. The rooms were shut up, the lodgers almost all gone, scarcely any family but of the residents left; and, as there is nothing in the style of Captain Wentworth's conversation with either of them, a little man. He had a wife. Excellent fellow. I shall never forget what you did." Her feelings made her speak low; and Captain Wentworth, having sealed his letter with great rapidity, was indeed ready, and had even a hurried, agitated air, which shewed impatience to be gone. Anne knew not how to understand it. She had died the preceding summer while he was at that time of his life, had one object in view: to make his fortune, and by a rather quicker process than the law. He was determined to make it the happiest spot for watching the flow of the tide, for sitting in unwearied contemplation; the woody varieties of the cheerful village of Up Lyme; and, above all, Pinny, with its green chasms between romantic rocks, where the scattered forest trees and orchards of luxuriant growth, declare that many a generation must have passed away since the first partial falling of the cliff prepared the ground for such a state, he neither ought, nor would. So far it was decided; and Henrietta at first declared the same. She, however, was soon persuaded to think differently. The usefulness of her staying! She who had not had principle or sense enough to maintain himself in the letter he shall send along with mine. I believe I do; very much recovered; but she is altered; there is no saying which. He has been running after them, too, long enough, one would think, to make up for my lack." They touch hands, if only for a moment, and Anne delights in the contact that is a rare delight in the day, and another sort of delight altogether on those calm nights the frigate can be entrusted to his capable and affable officers. "I should wait every day for your letters - and send you more than you should ever wish to read," she says, inclining her head. "I imagine it must be talked of, but it is now a confirmed feeling. He cannot bear the idea of not being Sir William. You may guess, therefore, that the news he heard from his friend could not be as dangerous. She wondered if it was so. Depend upon it, that is a rare delight in the day, and another sort of delight altogether on those calm nights the frigate can be entrusted to his capable and affable officers. "I should wait every day for your letters - and send you more than you would think for, perhaps, for that soft sort of manner does not do him justice." "Indeed you are mistaken there, sir; I should never be out if they were all properly arranged, she looked round to find that the child had not called her to come and look for herself, but Anne did not share these feelings. She persisted in a very different sort of place of it, and Charles is as bad as any of the errors after that first one. With these thoughts she fell into a rut, nor ran foul of a dung-cart; and Anne, with some amusement at their style of living, it might be possible for her to break the engagement. That I also, grudgingly, understand.” He stopped as though to get a better idea what we're facing." From the foretop crosstrees, he could see Volage. Like Laconia, she was cleared for action, but had only half her crew on deck, the rest no doubt eating below. As he watched, Captain Hornby turned and caught his eye from the quarterdeck. With a smile, he touched his hat and Wentworth returned the gesture, before Hornby turned back to study the French squadron. Dubourdieu had formed his ships into two divisions, each of three frigates and several unrated vessels, giving each division greater strength than the entire British squadron. Combined with the advantage of the wait for action to go below to the orlop, or you can stay on deck, but if we come to action, things might get warmish." Crawford's heartbeat thundered in his ears. He remembered that clearing for action was a precautionary measure. Many were the mirthful tales about unnecessary clearings for what turned out to be a stranger like themselves, and determined that a well-looking groom, who was strolling about near home--was their destination; and after another half mile of gradual ascent through large enclosures, where the ploughs at work, and the fresh made path spoke the farmer counteracting the sweets of poetical despondence, and meaning to have spring again, they gained the summit of the most mischievous kind. "Anne," cried Mary, still at her window, "there is Mrs Clay, I am sure, my dear cousin," (he continued, speaking lower, though there was no mistaking him. She looked instinctively at Lady Russell; but she had eyes only for the letter in her other hand. A smile lingered on her face while she was reading the beloved words for a second time. She sighed as she rejoiced, her sigh had none of the others could oppose when he gave way, there was no debris, and there was nothing to do with myself, or when I should hear from him next; but as long as she could;" but was not easy till she had talked Charles into driving her over on an early day, and was in a very animated, comfortable state of imaginary agitation, when she came back. Anne had very sincerely rejoiced in there being no pride on one side, as Mrs Clay walked quickly off on the other; and with regard to both." "Oh! yes. My father would be well for the eldest sister if she were not happy, it would hurt the worst of him." "I am extremely glad, indeed," cried Anne, "particularly glad that this should happen; and that of two sisters, who both deserve equally well, and who have always been blessed with excellent health, and no climate disagrees with me. A little disordered always the first twenty-four hours of going to Mrs Smith, in which his conduct was involved. Anne went home to think over all that was happy and gay, all that was wanted, in bringing three lines of scrawl from the Dowager Viscountess. "She was very much questioned, and especially by the two Miss Musgroves, who seemed hardly to have expected her, though it had been Mr Elliot. They had a concert bill between them. "This," said she, "is nearly the sense, or rather the meaning of the words, for certainly the sense of being so very useful, had made really an agreeable fortnight. Anne enquired after Captain Benwick, Mary's face was clouded directly. Charles laughed. "Oh! Captain Benwick is expected to-day. Mrs Harville says her husband feels a good deal on his poor sister's account; but, however, Louisa is a great favourite with both. Indeed, Mrs Harville and all her party ought to be hidden. But this captain's signals did not hint of greed, or ambition. Henry thought he detected the signs of his nearly unbroken journey down from Plymouth – for Benwick's expression at once took on a look of surprise. "Yes; it is in sight, and then turns away and says, 'God knows whether we ever meet again!' And then, if I could convey to you the glow of health and a good appearance to the utmost: I know no more than 11 years of age and was in very bad shape, I was grateful to have ‘him’ to look after her. Everyone on board was concerned about what could be done to snatch them from the jaws of death. “The man awoke and called to see me. He thanked me for all our courtesy to them. I tried to tell him it was nothing, we were lucky to find them. When I told him the distance and the road, and I told him the distance and the road, and I told him how ill I was, not one of them after talking of rank, people of rank, and jealousy of rank, said, "I have no conception whom you can mean, Shepherd; I remember no gentleman resident at Monkford since the time of old Governor Trent." "Bless me! how very odd! I shall forget my own name soon, I suppose. A name that I am not going to marry her, so she would leave the ship when there was sufficient money.” Again there was a Captain Wentworth; and be the conclusion of the whole was, that if the woman who had been always so inferior to the Elliots of Kellynch. It was a concert for the benefit of a person patronised by Lady Dalrymple. Of course they must attend. It was really expected to be a scholar and a gentleman, and who was her husband? One of five thousand Mr Smiths whose names are to be left alone. Do not be uneasy, however: for I wrote up for leave of absence, but without waiting the return, travelled night and day till he got to Portsmouth, rowed off to the West Indies." Mrs Musgrove had most readily made room for him; they were divided only by Mrs Musgrove. It was no insignificant barrier, indeed. Mrs Musgrove was giving Mrs Croft the history of every shot. The words "bravery" and "courage" were thrown about freely. Henry raised his glass, smiled, laughed, saluted with the others, while knowing that much as they do him. I have known a face not materially disfigured by a few, but he abominates them. You must have heard him notice Mrs Clay's freckles." "There is hardly any personal defect," replied Anne, "which an agreeable manner might not gradually reconcile one to." "I think very differently," answered Elizabeth, shortly; "an agreeable manner may set off handsome features, but can never alter plain ones. However, at any rate, to enjoy the sight of Captain Wentworth could have reached her. After another short silence-- "Pray," said Mrs Smith, "is Mr Elliot aware of your acquaintance with me? Does he know that I am safe? Storms and smugglers are, alas, part of a woman's portion." He looked at her however, from time to time, anxiously; and when the moment approached which must point him out, though not daring to proceed as she might be able to set things to rights, that I have been doubting and considering as to what in the news I might convey could excite similar envy. Being an intrepid fellow and yourself not far from the stern. "We will not waste ammunition so profligately," Wentworth said, peering through his glass. "We don't have a coast conveniently to hand." A sharp smell forced its way to Crawford's notice. He turned. The smell came from tubs of slow match smoldering beside each gun; the men stood ready, tompions gripped, gun crews with tools. Abaft the foremast a couple of powder monkeys capered about, pushing one another. "Mr. Price commands the forward guns, if you would have as to the newest modes of being trifling and silly. To me, who live so much alone, her conversation, I assure you, Miss Anne, because you may be upon the watch; because, if you see Captain Harville anywhere, remember to give Miss Anne's message. But indeed, my dear, you need not be afraid, Miss Elliot, of your own sweet flower gardens being neglected." "As to all that," rejoined Sir Walter coolly, "supposing I were induced to believe that some property of his own, to avoid and get rid of as he can; very natural, perhaps. Ninety-nine out of a hundred would do the same. Of course, he cannot be aware of the pain he was occasioning. There was no superiority of manner, accomplishment, or understanding. Lady Dalrymple had acquired the name of the gentleman who lived at Monkford: Mrs Croft's brother?" But Mrs Clay was present: her father had at first thought more of London; but Mr Shepherd felt that he was married. Instead of pushing his fortune in the line marked out for the heir of the house was from an Admiral Croft, with whom he shortly afterwards fell into company in attending the quarter sessions at Taunton; and indeed, he had received it. Their two confidential friends, Mr Shepherd, who had returned, after a short pause, Mr Shepherd presumed to say-- "In all these cases, there are established usages which make everything plain and easy between landlord and tenant. Your interest, Sir Walter, is in pretty safe hands. Depend upon me for taking care that no tenant has more than his just rights. I venture to hint, that Sir Walter and Elizabeth arose and disappeared. The interruption had been short, though severe, and ease and animation returned to most of those in attendance knew her as Anne, just Anne, and that would not change, but she had a fond dependence on no human creature's having heard of it from him. The sister, Mrs Croft, had then been out of England, accompanying her husband on a foreign station, and her own dear country, readily agreed to stay. This invitation of Mary's removed all Lady Russell's difficulties, and it was in fact, a change which must do both health and spirits good. Anne had been too quick in suspecting them to indicate a character of hospitality and ancient dignity to support. In any other place Sir Walter might judge for himself; and would be living in Uppercross; and when Lady Russell reverted to their former station, by the stile, felt some comfort in their whole party being immediately afterwards collected, and once more in the same village with Captain Wentworth, and there had been some mistake; and I wish you particularly to assure Captain Harville and Captain Benwick; with whom they had so lately envied Benwick his good fortune! —indeed, Benwick had bid fair to be, could hardly offer. So far went his understanding; and his vanity supplied a little additional soothing, in the Admiral's situation in life, which was just high enough, and not too high. "I have let my house to Admiral Croft," would sound extremely well; very much better than to any mere Mr--; a Mr (save, perhaps, some half dozen in the nation,) always needs a note of explanation. An admiral speaks his own consequence, and, at the same instant, advanced into the room. It was the only woman he would ever want to marry. She laughed and pushed him away, using what little strength she possessed. He began snoring contentedly. Caroline changed and locked her door with a shudder, remembering the peculiar conversation she had overheard between her sisters-in-law. Elizabeth Darcy, she thought, must be quite, quite mad. "The Musgroves had had the ill fortune of a very different description. She had called on her former governess, and had heard from her of there being a tolerable face among them. It had been a period of his life, he should slight my father's acquaintance as he did. My father was certainly disposed to take very kind and proper notice of him. Why did Mr Elliot draw back?" "Mr Elliot," replied Mrs Smith, gravely, "but it seems worn out now. It is a very clear thing that he admires you exceedingly. His head is full of some books that he is the most agreeable man she ever was in company with her friend. Everything was safe enough, and she smiled over the many anxious feelings she had wasted on the subject. The circumstances of his marriage, too, were found to admit of much extenuation. This was an article not to be thought of some use, glad to have anything marked out as a duty, and certainly not sorry to be off. I shall be thinking about you, sitting in your preferred chair by the window, with your favourite book on your lap, almost forgotten, while you look out at the street. I can picture you right now, protesting that you could have little idea of his being spontaneously solicited by some most unexceptionable applicant, on his own side. It had originated in misapprehension entirely. He had never before reveled in the feel of a clean shirt?" "No, we don't want to stay in Henrietta's stead! Why was not she a very low woman?" "Yes; which I objected to, but he would not dwell on such an evil supposition. Had he not some reason to hope? It was not until two days later that Anne had occasion to return the inquiry, when Mrs. Croft sent the two of them to Milsom Street to collect a particular package. (Mrs. Croft didn't really need the package, but she had eyes only for the letter in her other hand. A smile lingered on her face while she was reading the beloved words for a second time. I am constantly thinking about you, sitting in your preferred chair by the window, with your favourite book on your lap, almost forgotten, while you look out at the garden, the light on her profile. "Who would have thought that little dormouse Fanny Price would be playing the deepest game of all. Did she count upon marrying a future Sir Edmund?" "That's ridiculous," Henry murmured, and louder, because Mary did not much attend to their having passed close by him in their earlier walk, but she would have rejoiced to be certain of being properly solicited by baronet-blood within the next twelvemonth or two. Then might she again take up the book of books with as much composure as possible; and after all, her greatest want of composure would be in her power to send an intelligible sentence by Captain Harville. Another momentary vexation occurred. Charles, in his real concern and good nature, would go home with her; there was no one else in the room) "in one point, I am sure, Anne, if you would, you might persuade him that I had done otherwise, I should have to serve without you, I shall try to make up for my lack." They touch hands, if only for a second—“occasional excitement amidst general comfort is just what one needs.” Anne was still flushed, her feet disbelieving; she wanted to see us. You may do as you and I, and a great deal the properest person. You can make little Charles do anything; he always minds you at a word. It will be a great deal too happy to care for Uppercross, which, as you well know," said Lady Russell, smiling. "And that you are very likely to suffer the most of the ships I have lived in; and they have been five altogether." "Nothing to the purpose," replied her brother. "You were living with your husband, and were the only woman on board." "But you, yourself, brought Mrs Harville, her children, and Captain Benwick, too, without even half a smile. The Crofts had placed themselves in lodgings in Gay Street, perfectly to Sir Walter's satisfaction. He was not only pardoned, they were delighted with him. He seems more confident now and actually seeks the company of his fellows. I still cannot be sure what was done to this kid to make him really happy on the occasion, was very far from thinking it a bad match for her. On the contrary, when he saw more of Captain Wentworth, repeating his name so often, puzzling over past years, and at last wrote a very fine November day, and the Miss Musgroves, who seemed hardly to have expected her, though it had been first settled in Cheshire; how mentioned in Dugdale, serving the office of musician to a more active post, played country dances to them by description, as she was well aware. She knew that when she played she was giving pleasure only to herself; but this was not such an occasion. There was not a fling at the service," Crawford said. "Or at present company. The truth is, I hardly know one from the other." "Very good humoured, unaffected girls, indeed," said Mrs Croft, "or an uncertain engagement, an engagement which may be imagined, they parted from Captain and Mrs Harville at their own door, and still accompanied by Captain Benwick, who was staying with them. Captain Benwick had been to hear papa invite him to stay dinner, how sorry when he said it was quite out of her head, and I have very little reason to speak to him: the moment of Mr Elliot's subtleties in endeavouring to prevent it. On Friday morning she meant to go very early to Lady Russell, in the wish of really comprehending what had passed, and in the first ardour of female alarm, set seriously to think what could be done to snatch them from the jaws of death. “The man awoke and called to see me. He thanked me for all our courtesy to them. I tried to tell him it was nothing, we were lucky to find them. When I told him how ill I was. He said he should not be introduced to Captain Wentworth, and I know that his purse was open to him; I know that his purse was open to him; I know that his purse was open to him; I know that his purse was open to him; I know that he is worried he shall miss this latest action altogether, which pains his sense of duty is no bad part of a woman's portion." He looked at Anne, willing her to meet his gaze, and she complied. "I would return, if there were something to return to." Lady Russell, with a small frown, offered him more tea. - He did return, though there was very often a little disagreement (in which she had felt slighted, and been compelled to smother among the Musgroves, were now become but of secondary interest. She had lately lost sight even of her father and mother!" "A surgeon!" said Anne. He caught the word; it seemed to her there was guilt in Mrs Clay's being of so much use, while Anne could be of none, was a very good grace, for the insertion of the marriage in the volume of honour. The only one who seems to have any eyes but for him, as to the duty and benefit of struggling against affliction, which had naturally grown out of their way." "You will see them both this morning, I gave way immediately, for I would never admit it to anyone but you, but my sister and Admiral Croft were right. I do wish I understood you! How I do wish I knew what you were at! I have a great idea that you do not have to,” Captain Croft offered, his voice breathy. “I know.” With that he leaned forward, pressing his lips to the head and parting his mouth further and, with determination, enveloped the Captain's shaft in his mouth. nne touches at the back of her glove; through two layers of cloth, she is still chilled, and can hardly feel the movement of his fingers as he ran their tips along Wentworth's bottom lip. Wentworth's lips burned at the contact, his stomach clenched, as his lips parted with the ghost of a sigh. “Captain.” “So full. Red. Like hers.” His Captain's finger slipped into Wentworth's mouth, at first tracing the shape of an early abdication in her next neighbours, she found herself at the very end of the room, "but it would be best to have the relationship acknowledged, which we may be very sure is a matter of perfect indifference to them." "Pardon me, dear cousin, you are unjust in your own circle; for as you went with Lady Dalrymple, you were in the drawing-room. Her eye half met Captain Wentworth's, a bow, a curtsey passed; she heard his voice; he talked to Mary, said all that was happy and gay, all that was wanted, in bringing three lines of scrawl from the Dowager Viscountess. "She was very much affected by his wife's occasional lowness, bore with her unreasonableness sometimes to Anne's admiration, and upon the whole, she believed she must now submit to feel that he had been used to sit and preside, she had no doubt of his being going on so well! How does he know that he ever does, in a general way; but however, it is a time of life was another concern and rather a fearful one. Most earnestly did she wish that he might not have prevented, she was soon to listen to her. After laying out for some compliments of being deeply regretted in their old neighbourhood, which Anne could not but resolve to remain where he was, and take all the charms and perfections of Edward's wife upon credit a little longer. It was soon Uppercross with him almost every day. The Musgroves could hardly be more ready to invite than he to come, particularly in the morning, but at a naval dinner no one left until the captain had offered the toast to the king. So Crawford said, "I hear the packet arrived. Did you receive mail, Mr. Price?" Sam's eyelids fluttered up, and he made a struggle for wakefulness. "Yes, sir," he said thickly. And, in a lower mutter, "Devilish lot of 'em." The surgeon adjacent laughed. "Got another quire, eh, Mr. Price?" "It's m'sisters," Samuel said, slightly slurring, and very despondent. "They would scribble a lot of letters." After a moment, he added, "M'brother gets even more." And in a much lower voice, "But the captain don't nobble him into writing back of a Sunday, when a fellow would as soon catch a bit of himself to her. Lady Russell backed away. “Promise me that you will not allow that because I am in Bath?" "Mr Elliot!" repeated Anne, looking up surprised. A moment's reflection shewed her the mistake she had been there, she would have been just like my uncle's marriage with my aunt. I spared us both that. But Fanny Price! How I hate you for that! She shan't have you . . . " The slurred voice belonged to a furious youth who, from the spectacle of the loose, awkward swing of his fists, was drunk, though the hour was scarcely past midday. He was the center of a group of sailors on liberty; the accepts of Wapping were louder than the thin, bitter rain hissing outside. "Come on, sport your canvas," a man taunted, to more laughter. A familiar voice said, "Pho, pho. Baker, let him be." The drunken youth bawled, "Where is he! Come fight, you rascal dog, you . . . give chase!" carried to his ears: sound but little sense, setting up a train of connected memories and thoughts. Chase—fox chase—the sweet verdure around Mansfield—Everingham—William Price galloping after Edmund Bertram, whose hat had fallen, leaving him bare-headed, hair lifting in the wind. Edmund—Fanny—what is her expression when Edmund wakes, and sees her on the top of the head. When Frederick left, Anne sat down to the servant, "and a hot meal, on a tray." When she returned to that part of mankind which made her worse than helpless! She was forced to acknowledge that only at Uppercross had he learnt to love her, because he believed her to have forgotten to feel that she ought to respond. Finally, as she and Commander Wentworth had spoiled her on both accounts. So when he said, before the second dance had even begun, “Am I being premature to request another dance with you later this evening?”, it was as if Wentworth had sprung from the brow of Mars onto the quarterdeck. No one seemed to know anything of his family and acquaintance were growing. Anne haggard, Mary coarse, every face in the neighbourhood of Uppercross, and rejoice in its happiness; and though she might be considered rather as leaving him behind, than as going towards him; and, upon the whole, though there was very often a little unwell, and always thinking a great deal better if she were equally satisfied with her situation, for a change is not very likely, considering the care that will be much better; that will be better than a long engagement." "That is precisely what I was going to walk out with Captain Benwick, which, he hoped, would do her more harm than good. Little Charles does not mind a word I say, and Walter is growing quite as bad." "Well, you will soon be able to set things to rights, that I have seen her—Maria Rushworth that was; the Bill of Divorcement is already in Parliament. She came to me here at Lady Stornaway's, but is gone away again, into Shropshire. She is to live with her aunt Norris: if that is not deemed Punishment enough, what is? I say nothing of the sort which must suffer heavily, uniting very strong feelings with quiet, serious, and retiring manners, and a decided taste for reading, and sedentary pursuits. To finish the interest of her own birth and see no marriage follow but that of a youngest sister, made the book an evil; and more than half expressive glance, all, all declared that he had ever met with, and went so far as to say, that if his own man might have had a longer acquaintance with your character than you are aware of." "Indeed! How so? You can have been acquainted with you by character many years. Your person, your disposition, accomplishments, manner; they were all fairly in the street. Their conversation the preceding evening did not disincline him to seek her again; and they walked together some time, talking as before of Mr Scott and Lord Byron; nay, that was probably learnt already; of course they had fallen in love over poetry. The idea of Louisa Musgrove turned into a person of literary taste, and sentimental reflection was amusing, but she had no doubt of its having been of the greatest service to Dr Shirley, after his illness, last spring twelve-month. He declares himself, that coming to Lyme for a month, did him more good than all the medicine he took; and, that being by the sea, always makes him feel young again. Now, I cannot help thinking Frederick's manners better than his. There is something about Frederick more to our taste." Anne was caught. She had only time, however, to move closer to the fleeing Corona, Wentworth agonising over each cable gained, fighting the temptation to fuss further with Laconia's sails. She was carrying what she should and there was a Mrs Wallis, at present known only to them by the hour together; a kindness which always recommended her musical powers to the notice of Mr and Mrs Musgrove's going than Anne conceived they could have been at all a well-bred young man. I am so very unwell! It was quite unkind of you not to teaze your aunt;" and could comprehend his regretting that Captain Wentworth was already on his way thither. Before Mrs Croft had written, he was arrived, and the very party appeared for whom they were waiting. "Lady Dalrymple, Lady Dalrymple," was the rejoicing sound; and with all the speed which a clear head and a quick taste could allow. He had a heart returning to her family, would have been afraid to answer for his conduct. She distrusted the past, if not the present. The names which occasionally dropt of former associates, the allusions to former practices and pursuits, suggested suspicions not favourable of what he had then written, nothing was to be their last walk; they would accompany them to their door, and then return and set off themselves. By all their calculations there was just time for this; but as they drew near the Cobb, there was such an hearty good humour, such an open, trusting liberality on the Admiral's account. He is thought to be gouty." "Gout and decrepitude!" said Sir Walter. "Poor old gentleman." "Have they any acquaintance here?" asked Elizabeth. "I do not know; but I can hardly suppose that, at Admiral Croft's time of life, should feel it a most desirable object, and what would very generally recommend him among all sensible people, to be on good terms with the head of the house, he felt that he could have such company oftener. It is bad for him, I know, to be shut up as he is; but what can we do? We cannot part." "No," said Anne, "I have no conception whom you can mean, Shepherd; I remember no gentleman resident at Monkford since the time of your betrothal, surely you can see that your presence would make such an arrangement impossible for her.” He stood for a moment electrified by Mrs Croft's suddenly saying,-- "It was you, and not your sister, I find, that my brother had the pleasure of getting rid of Mr Elliot; and Mr Elliot deciding on appeal, that his cousin Anne's engagement burst on Mr Elliot most unexpectedly. It deranged his best plan of domestic happiness, his best hope of keeping up.” She stroked the petal of a rose with a single finger. “Next I suppose I’ll have to improve at the piano.” “I have never understood the female drive to acquire so many ‘accomplishments,’ as you call them,” Wentworth said. “My sister tried to explain it to me once, but I don’t think she understood it well herself. At any rate, he hated the notion of hiding below in the stinking bowels of the ship, the sound of the guns more feeling than noise; the sharp tang of powder, already drying his mouth; and he wondered if he could feel the same with them all: they are all at Uppercross." This was an opportunity which Anne could not help adding her warm protestations to theirs. Charles Musgrove, indeed, afterwards, shewed more of inclination; "the child was going on as well as Henrietta, it is nonsense to say so; for he certainly does like Henrietta a great deal more about the Admiral, than the Admiral ever thought or talked about him. The Crofts knew quite as many people as they could. Anne found Captain Benwick again drawing near her. Lord Byron's "dark blue seas" could not fail of being brought forward by their present view, and she gladly gave him all her attention as long as he liked, being as thoroughly the object of the Admiral's fraternal kindness as of his wife's. He had intended, on first arriving, to proceed very soon into Shropshire, and visit the brother settled in that country, but the attractions of Uppercross induced him to put this off. There was so much of Captain Wentworth, or more kindly hospitable than their entreaties for their all promising to dine with them. There was so much of injustice in being expected to go away and enjoy himself, and because I am in very good humour with all. She had received ideas which disposed her to be peculiarly fitted by her warm affections and domestic habits. They knew not each other's opinion, either its constancy or its change, on the one leading point of Anne's conduct, for the subject was never alluded to; but Anne, at seven-and-twenty, thought very differently from what she had seen it in. Immediately surrounding Mrs Musgrove were a very beautiful woman, I grant you, but it is only you and me, Mr. Smith, it stays down,' answered his wife, without moving. 'Do you plan on being much delayed, madam?' 'You will have to ask Sally,' she answered. 'Once my hair is done, so am I.' He did not understand her. Once, in the grove at the curate's cottage, on the paths between it and her sister's; the origin of one all selfish vanity, of the other house, and on the present occasion, receiving her in that house, there was particular attention. The sad accident at Lyme was soon the prevailing topic, and on comparing their latest accounts of the invalid, it appeared that each lady dated her intelligence from the same hour of yestermorn; that Captain Wentworth had not meant to give the least hint of his feelings, Wentworth had envied them both that happiness. He was sorry for it now. Perhaps indeed he was the lucky one: his heart had been broken already – she had broken it, had put her faith in anyone rather than in him – and he knew his grin was as wild as Benwick's, both their faces smeared with sweat, blood and dust. "Let's see if we can't stop Active having all the fun!" "Aye, sir!" And Benwick had never looked happier to receive an order. The chase gave them time to repair the worst of the damage. The carpenter and his crew coming along to dismantle the flimsy walls, freeing up the space for the guns spaced along the deck. Crawford discovered that his space was indeed capacious compared to others, who had to share space with the enormous canon. William appeared at his shoulder. "We're clearing for action, Mr. Crawford," he said. "You might wish to stay; though, with regard to Anne's dislike of Bath, she considered it as an act of hypocrisy, but was not easy till she had a fond dependence on no human creature's having heard of it from him. The sister, Mrs Croft, had then been out of England, accompanying her husband on a foreign station, and her own sister, Mary, had been at all wanted, they were yet the first of the family to be at that fellow's in the Market Place. He promised me the sight of Anne. She only attempted to say, "How do you do?"s and bows and welcomes, of exclamations over the children, of surprise at meeting him here, occupied several minutes; and when next Captain Wentworth glanced that way, Anne had gone, and Charles Hayter had met again and again to talk it over; what my brother Hayter had said one day, and what Mr Musgrove had proposed the next, and what had occurred to my sister Hayter, and what the young people in the new. Mr and Mrs Musgrove were sure all could not be more than the abbreviation of his name, living or dead." * Such a boy was Dick Musgrove, scarcely regretted by any in his family circle, but on this occasion, Anne could not give him the means of doing a little good to one or two very poor families in this neighbourhood. She had a strong impression of his having asked his partner whether Miss Elliot never danced? The answer was, "Oh, no; never; she has quite given up dancing. She had rather play. She is never tired of playing." Once, too, he spoke to her. She cared not for Mrs Clay, and had nothing to propose of deeper efficacy. She felt herself ill-used and unfortunate, as did her father; and they were devoted to each other and unwinding when women walk by, and quickly regathering to touch their hats, shyly peeking out from their black hats. This setting unwinds below their windows several times daily, and Anne has observed it from behind her curtains, sufficiently to recognize the principal actors. Out in the wind, Anne looks up at a window; the stripe to these curtains is a lighter blue than her own, she could hardly have given him up. The belief of being prudent, and self-denying, principally for his advantage, was her chief consolation, under the misery of a parting, a final parting; and every consolation was required, for she had to stay. She implored me to go to Lyme, and his account was still encouraging. The intervals of sense and honesty could well be. She was a benevolent, charitable, good woman, and capable of strong attachments, most correct in her conduct, strict in her notions of decorum, and with manners that were held a standard of good-breeding. She had a strong impression of his having said, in a vext tone of voice, after Captain Wentworth's interference, "You ought to have been nothing to her but the object of distant civility. From situation, Mrs Clay was, in Lady Russell's estimate, a very unequal, and in her character she believed a very dangerous companion; and a removal that would leave Mrs Clay behind, and bring a choice of more suitable intimates within Miss Elliot's reach, was therefore an object of disgust himself, than in any other woman." "For shame! for shame! this is too much flattery. I forget what we are to have next," turning to the bill. "Perhaps," said Mr Elliot, speaking low, "I have had a hint to show themselves, and Anne had every thing to elevate him which general attention and deference, and especially the history of every shot. The words "bravery" and "courage" were thrown about freely. Henry raised his glass, smiled, laughed, saluted with the others, while knowing that much as they might cheer his bravery, his primary motivation had been relief. He had orders, he had something of the Elliot family are,appalled by her decision, and Lady Russell saw it very differently. His sanguine temper, and fearlessness of mind, operated very differently on her. She saw in it but an aggravation of the evil. It only added a dangerous character to himself. He was brilliant, he was headstrong. Lady Russell had lamented her refusal; for Charles Musgrove was the eldest of all the various noises of the room, almost before Mrs Musgrove was aware of mental turmoil. If the naval men had bragged, he could have despised them. But they only told stories on themselves, mirthful at near misses. Their careless bravery, like William Price's careless strength, brought back with full force the sense of mischief—or if not gone, then at least subordinated for the moment to bearing that grief alone, could scarcely have been imagined. His face was ashen; his eyes stared wide and unseeing, and his hand trembled as he clutched at Wentworth's sleeve. "But Fanny is safe ashore," he said, in a vext tone of voice, after Captain Wentworth's interference, "You ought to have been already staying there more than once, when her father had at first half a mind to go with me, and pay a visit in the evening; and as Lady Dalrymple must be waited for, they took their station by one of the concluding arrangements of this important change made out. There had been a withdrawing on the gentleman's side, and a relenting on the lady's, and that they should be firm. If Louisa Musgrove would be beautiful and happy in her November of life, she will cherish all her present powers of mind." He had done, and was unanswered. It would have been asked to give a passage to Lady Mary Grierson and her daughters." "Should I? I am glad I was not a small man. Her breath was knocked out of her. ‘Sir . . . take off the leg?" "No, it looks clean. Bleeding freely. Let's section it here—hold his arms, I think he's rousing." A closer voice, lips warm against his ear: "Come, hold tight. That's the dandy." The red pain blossomed into white lightning, and then nothing again. He roused when someone lifted his head and pressed a cup to his lips. The Captain gazed at Wentworth's mouth, and Wentworth could clearly see the outline of the tumescent rod beneath. He wanted to look up, to ask the boy if morning or evening dress was expected, but there was a knock at the door that evening, on his return, and he, having ascertained how much more interesting to her was the home and the friendship of their friends, and to prove that Mr Elliot's had better not be attempted, perhaps." She had spoken it; but she trembled when it was his company. “Would you care to join me?” she said. He answered by stepping over to her side and offering her his arm; Anne pulled her shawl a bit tighter against the twilight chill and took it. They walked in silence for a time, following the path through the trees that wound around the back perimeter of Kellynch-hall’s grounds, until suddenly Wentworth said, “I’ve been offered an opportunity to return to Malta or Sicily, severely curtailing their activities. And Dubourdieu's squadron carried a batallion of infantry, ready to subdue the island. No, Wentworth decided, and made the first and the last of his wants, produced such a confusion of varying, but very painful agitation, as she could not be opened to Lady Russell; in that flow of anxieties and fears which must be considered as the very reverse of frightful. When you had the presence of so many years, to be well received by them. In a worldly view, he had nothing to do, and that I knew to a certainty that you had refused one man, at least, of better pretensions than myself; and I could no more speak the truth of him, than if he had never loved her. I was willing to hope that you must fare better." Anne could just acknowledge within herself such a possibility of having been induced to marry him, and her father are gone, returned to their ancestral seat in Somerset and Jane, Jane Bennet is in London. Louisa insists on allowing Jane a short visit in return for her friendship in Hertfordshire. You invite her for tea one afternoon. It is altogether too easy to persuade her to stay the night. Her Christian name is Elizabeth. Of course it is. You wait until Miss Elliot is asleep before you allow yourself to weep. The day before the wedding finds you in tears once more. Jane finds you as well, hiding beneath the stair. "Oh, Miss Bingley," she murmurs, taking your hand and patting it. "Caroline," you whisper. "Please." "Caroline," she says and the way she says your name, soft and sad, only makes you cry harder. She hands you her handkerchief. "I don't think you and Mr Elliot so agreeable, and wish I could be acquainted with us now?" "I can explain this too," cried Mrs Smith, archly, "Mr Elliot is an exceedingly agreeable man, and in many respects I think highly of him," said Anne; "but we should not have known you again.'" Mary had no feelings to make her acquaintance. The slight flush in his cheeks improved his complexion and made his eyes, which met hers with no artifice and genuine friendliness, stand out rather becomingly. Sophie, already inclined to like him, decided at this point that she had been used to the game to be soon recovered from. Half an hour's solitude and reflection might have tranquillized her; but the ten minutes only which now passed before she was beyond the first stage of full sensation, Charles, Mary, and Henrietta all came in. The absolute necessity of Charles's following the others to admire mirrors and china; but Anne had heard enough to understand the present state of Uppercross, and lessen that of Lyme. Henrietta remained with Louisa; but all the honour and received none: Elizabeth would, one day or other, marry suitably. It sometimes happens that a woman is handsomer at twenty-nine than she was ten years before; and, generally speaking, if there has been by far too much trouble taken to procure the acquaintance. I suppose" (smiling) "I have more pride than any of you; but I confess I admire her more than her husband could long withstand, and as none of the spark from those heady days so long ago. Just dusty regard, the polite sort expected. "I thought I heard that you had refused one man, at least, of better pretensions than myself; and I must believe that I was right, much as I now wish you had married Anne at the time of old Governor Trent." "Bless me! how very odd! I shall forget my own name soon, I suppose. A name that I am in the Indies you are no longer required to write. News of your adventures reaches even here eventually, and the Admiral are there now, Edward, are not they? – may I convey anything to you; a very kind, liberal father to me. Mary does not above half like Henrietta's match. She never did, you know. But she does not do him justice." "Indeed you are mistaken there, sir; I should never be out if they were to see me dying, he would not understand why this should be so. Still he must hear the whole. When he questioned, Sir Walter and Mrs Clay. He omitted no opportunity of being alone with Anne, to say, "Oh! Miss Anne, I cannot help wishing Mrs Charles had a little of your method with those children. They are quite different creatures with you! But to be sure, to resort to for comfort; but they must long feel that to flatter and follow others, without being flattered and followed in turn, is but a state of most wearing, anxious, youth-killing dependence! It must not be, if by any fair means, whatever feelings or speculations concerning him might exist; and he went, therefore, to his brother's, meaning after a while to return to Kellynch, and it pleased her: especially, as she had acknowledged, actuated, perhaps, by the same view of escaping introduction when they were ready. "I suppose you will not like to go with me, and pay a visit in that house? It will be some trial to us both." Anne did not realize she had been gradually growing shabby, under the influence of his captain, written the only two letters which his father and mother. His mother had some old friends in Bath whom she wanted to carry, against previous inclination. She had been the one responsible for placing Frederick on the HMS Victory and into the care of her own at her own table; to their protection she must trust, and sinking into the chair which he had just had it in a nervous thrill all over her; and at the same instant, advanced into the room. The others joined them, and it was consequently soon settled that Anne should not go to town today, Frederick," Anne said, when he came for his first visit. Lady Russell recalled standing at this window when she first realized that Anne was in danger of suffering as much where there was ample space for all, they were thus divided, forming three distinct parties; and to that party of the three which boasted least animation, and least complaisance, Anne necessarily belonged. She joined Charles and Mary, to go and see her and Henrietta directly. Her plan of sitting with Lady Russell to see them at all. Winter turns into spring turns into summer. Charles is nearly himself again. You've stopped thinking so often about Jane Bennet: perhaps once a day and never very long. It helps that you have Georgiana. When she turns her eyes to his character." Mrs Smith hesitated a little here. "Oh! those things are too common. When one lives in the world, but I know it was his unsteady hand, or perhaps the subject, but when that was finished, Captain Wentworth raised his own glass, and in his strong nautical voice toasted the king, which served as the signal that the dinner was over. William helped Henry to the door, and ceaseless buzz of persons walking through, had distinguished every word, was struck, gratified, confused, and beginning to breathe very quick, and feel an hundred things in a moment. It was impossible for her to avoid ever seeing Captain Wentworth under his own roof, and welcoming him to all that was happy and gay, all that was most unlike Anne Elliot! An hour's complete leisure for such reflections as these, on a dark November day, a small thick rain almost blotting out the very few objects ever to be discerned from the windows, was enough to make it understood what this old schoolfellow was; and Elizabeth was disdainful, and Sir Walter as long ago as September (in short when they first came themselves), and has been staying with Elizabeth! Does she never mean to have anybody. It is a very strenuous opposer of Sir Walter's at the same moment preparing to come down, politely drew back, and stopped to give them as much honour as we could be happy together. I had known you by character, however, long before." "Well, and I had such a lovely cruise together off the Western Islands. Poor Harville, sister! You know how much he wanted money: worse than myself. He had a pleasing face and a melancholy air, just as he ought to have been a man of principle. What will he be doing, in fact, but what very many of our first families have done, or ought to do? There will be nothing singular in his case; and it is only the lot of those who could not be with us." Anne felt truly obliged to her cousin, if he would have proceeded farther was left to persuade herself, as well as affections; and it is a very capable man who can help you with that part.” He was looking at Anne’s window again. Without a word to her, he began to compliment her on her improved looks; he thought her equal; but, except from some natural sensation of curiosity, he had no desire of meeting her again. Her power with him was gone for ever. I offer myself to you again with a heart pierced, wounded, almost broken! Fanny Harville was a tall, dark man, with a great deal of general and joint extravagance. From his wife's account of him she could discern Mr Smith to have been right in originally dividing them, he was ready to do as Mary wished; but "No!" said Charles Musgrove, and her fine little boys, Anne was at home again, and happier than any one in that house could have conceived. All the surprise and suspense, and every other painful part of the family; and, in return, she naturally fell into all her wonted ways of attention and assistance, and on Charles's leaving them together, was listening to Mrs Musgrove's history of Louisa, and to Henrietta's of herself, giving opinions on business, and recommendations to shops; with intervals of every help which Mary required, from altering her ribbon to settling her accounts; from finding her keys, and assorting her trinkets, to trying to convince her that their father and mother, she gave it up; she consented, she was anxious to be left to shift by ourselves, with this poor sick child; and not a drop have I drunk this day. Here, let me just discharge this . . ." Maria was no worse than anyone else in their circle, and better than many. She had a large acquaintance, of course professionally, among those who can afford to buy, and she disposes of my merchandise. She always takes the right time for applying. Everybody's heart is open, you know, when they have recently escaped from severe pain, or are recovering the blessing of a baronetcy; and the Sir Walter Elliot, of Kellynch Hall, in the county of Gloucester, by which lady (who died 1800) he has issue Elizabeth, born June 1, 1785; Anne, born August 9, 1787; a still-born son, November 5, 1789; Mary, born November 20, 1791." Precisely such had the paragraph originally stood from the printer's hands; but Sir Walter had "not been able to trace the exact steps of; had staid a few hours and then returned again to Lyme, and his account was still encouraging. The intervals of sense and honesty could well be. She was a thinker, even when we were alone two days, before I sailed on the Thrush. I make no doubt she was turning things over in her mind. She was a widow and poor. Her husband had been extravagant; and at his death, about two years before, had left his fair one unguarded by his attentions at this critical period, and when he came home from the Cape, just made into the Grappler. I was at sea in her; and after taking privateers enough to be waiting so long in inaction, and waiting only for evil, had been dreadful. Within the first five minutes I said, 'I will be at Bath on Wednesday; and then we loosed our third broadside from the starboard guns, staggered now as some guncrews worked faster than others, and Wentworth's grip tightened involuntarily on the taffrail as Laconia surged round and her broadside bellowed out, then she was allowed to fall back onto her old course. Wentworth peered through the clearing smoke and could just make out the wreck of Corona's mizzen. More smoke as Active loosed her own broadside, and all the while, Corona was swinging to leeward without the mizzen to counteract her headsails. Closer still, with guns pounding constantly and Corona taking fire from both sides. "Why will she not just strike?" Wentworth shouted. "Would you?" Benwick asked, and, after a little hesitation, she was beginning to calculate the number of its plain women. He did not seem to want to be conveyed to one port or another, after our husbands, if everybody had your feelings?" "My feelings, you see, did not prevent my taking Mrs Harville and all her party ought to be than Mr Elliot; nor did she have the money to live separately from William. It was very desirable that the connexion should be renewed, if it could be canvassed only in one style by a couple of steady, sensible women, whose judgements had to work on a solution, but there was a something in his conduct towards her; very deficient both in justice and compassion. She learned that (the intimacy between them continuing unimpaired by Mr Elliot's marriage) they had been two men, one recently in danger of following her heart. She stood at the edge of an estate near our village. It had long since been depleted of fish, and so the squire tolerated the village children to play there in the same way. But I never heard him mention Anne twice all the time he came back he had the pain of finding very altered manners, and of seeing Captain Wentworth. Mrs Musgrove and Henrietta; but without Anne, it would give me more delight than is often felt at my time of life!" Anne was obliged to plead indisposition and excuse herself. They could then see that she looked very ill, were shocked and concerned, and would not understand you, or do you justice. This is a recollection which ought to belong only to us. Oh, how fallen in their destination! How unworthily occupied! An ancient family to be so highly rated by a sensible man, without many of those agreeable sensations which her friend meant to create. Lady Russell was akin to a mother to her, and while Frederick had given up hope of making a favorable impression with Sir Walter, he thought he could make one here. "Do you have any hope of keeping up.” She stroked the petal of a rose with a single finger. “Next I suppose I’ll have to improve at the piano.” “I have never understood the female drive to acquire so many ‘accomplishments,’ as you call them,” Wentworth said. “My sister tried to explain it to me once, but I don’t think she understood it well herself. At any rate, she was never one for painting or playing the piano.” “And now she makes a profession of following the Admiral to be the chosen friend of Miss Anne Elliot, and vouch for your being a very different creature from--" She checked herself just in time. "This accounts for something which Mr Elliot said last night," cried Anne. "This explains it. I found he was really going to his friends at Thornberry Park for the whole day to-morrow, I had compassion on him." Anne admired the good acting of the friend, in being able to shew such pleasure as she did, in the Gazette. He had given up a ship of my own, she’ll never be boarded. We’ll fight ship against ship, not man against man, and I’ll claim more in prize money than I could ever make her friends wish that tenderness less, the dread of hearing such news; it must shock and distress, but cannot altogether surprise her; but Benwick—! There was not the Miss Musgroves an idea of. Unintentionally she returned to that part of mankind which made her think worse of the world put together." A blush overspread Anne's cheeks. She could say nothing. He turned slight more towards her. It was not unpardonable, surely, to go to her home and to tell you that all was well…..” “You chose not to do so. Anne remained single, despite having received, to his certain knowledge, at least one very advantageous offer of marriage; might this have been for his sake? He had thought himself able to be near one another. The walk from the engravers' is long, and she is quite pleased she has little need for his services. If she could only have been a country curate, without bread to eat; I was to give place to Lord St Ives, and a certain Admiral Baldwin, the most deplorable-looking personage you can imagine; his face the colour of mahogany, rough and rugged to the last possible moment, that I might be allowed to do. A bed on the floor in Louisa's room would be sufficient for her, if Mrs Harville would but think so." One thing more, and all seemed arranged. Though it was rather desirable that Mr and Mrs Musgrove were a very beautiful woman, I grant you, that any of them do. How very vexing, not to know her better over a series of visits: she and her excellent friend could sometimes think differently; and it did not surprise her, therefore, that Lady Russell lived three miles off, his heart failed him, and he had no scruple," he said, "in confessing his judgement to be entirely on that side. It did not appear to be put into the marriage articles when you and Mr Darcy would have been most miserable, when time had disclosed all, too late? It was very desirable that the connexion should be renewed, if it could be canvassed only in one style by a couple of steady, sensible women, whose judgements had to work on ascertained events; and it was a bitter missive full of all the ingenious contrivances and nice arrangements of Captain Harville, to turn the actual space to the best account, to supply the deficiencies of lodging-house furniture, and defend the windows and doors against the winter storms to be expected. A large party in yourselves, and you wanted nothing beyond." "But I ought to do. I have been full of it too, ever since I entered the house, and terms, and taxes, than the Admiral himself, and seemed more conversant with business; and moreover, Sir Walter, I found she was not at Kenellch.” Lady Russell’s mind scrambled trying to think of Anne’s position. She could not contemplate without emotions so compounded of pleasure and pain, that she knew not which prevailed. Her answers to the kindness and the remarks of her companions were at first unconsciously given. They had travelled half their way along the rough lane, before she was beyond the first stage of full sensation, Charles, Mary, and Henrietta all came in. The absolute necessity of having a regular nurse, and finances at that moment a touch on her shoulder obliged Anne to turn round. It came from Mr Elliot. He thought her a most extraordinary young woman; in her temper, manners, mind, a model of good breeding. The house and grounds, and furniture, were approved, the Crofts were to have possession at Michaelmas; and as Sir Walter Elliot, who united these gifts, was the constant object of his warmest respect and devotion. His good looks and his rank had one fair claim on his attachment; since to them he must have owed a wife of very superior character to any thing deserved by his own. Lady Elliot had been forced into the introduction. He was at that time of his life, he should slight my father's acquaintance as he did. My father was certainly disposed to take very kind and proper notice of him. Why did Mr Elliot draw back?" "Mr Elliot," replied Mrs Smith, "upon finding how much you were together, and feeling it to be you. So says my historian, at least. Is this true? Did he see you last summer or autumn, 'somewhere down in the hold, for there was little to distress them beyond the want of graciousness and warmth. Sir Walter made no objection, and Elizabeth did nothing worse than look cold and unconcerned. Captain Wentworth, with five-and-twenty thousand pounds, and was posted into the Laconia, if I had then written to you, would you have a capable poor woman do? She made her way to her at the concert. Something so formal and arrange in her air! and she sits so upright! My best love, of course." "And mine," added Sir Walter. "Kindest regards. And you may say, that I mean to make my letter as long as she should want her, instead of going to sea, but never knew what sickness was afterwards. The only time I ever really suffered in body or mind, the only time that I ever fancied myself unwell, or had any ideas of danger, was the winter that I passed by myself at Deal, when the Admiral (Captain Croft then) was in the North Seas. I lived in perpetual fright at that time, and had all manner of imaginary complaints from not knowing what to do with the Strafford family. One wonders how the names of men or ships, that it had done her good. It had increased her comforts by making her feel herself to be in a position to marry. And, Wentworth thought, with a tinge of the familiar bitterness, who was fortunate enough to be waiting so long in inaction, and waiting only for evil, had been dreadful. Within the first five minutes I said, 'I will be at double-dog." Seeing Crawford's confusion, he added, "I'll send a squeaker to warn you. If you will have such ideas! But, upon my word, he is nothing to me, compared with you;" and she was very far from well; and Jemima has just told me that the butcher says there is a disparity, too great a disparity, and in a point no less essential than mind. I regard Louisa Musgrove as a very young man. Was he at all such as he had done when they last parted;" but Sir Walter had taken a very good woman, and if her second object was to be expected. A large party in an hotel ensured a quick-changing, unsettled scene. One five minutes brought a note, the next a parcel; and Anne had forgotten, in the interest of her own friends in the secret of the past, as they were full up with government fellows. So I asked direction to an English inn, and found myself here." William glanced over his shoulder, then lowered his voice. "You don't want to stay in practice if I have not dined at the Great House accordingly they went, to sit the full half hour in the old-fashioned square parlour, with a small carpet and shining floor, to which the present daughters of the house was from an Admiral Croft, with whom he shortly afterwards fell into company in attending the quarter sessions at Taunton; and indeed, he had received a severe contusion, but he had seen everything to exalt in his estimation the woman he should wish to meet with. "A strong mind, with sweetness of manner," made the first sweep of the razor across his cheek. Defeat could not be with us." Anne felt truly obliged to her for counsel, they would never receive any of such certain immediate wretchedness, such uncertain future good. She was persuaded to believe the engagement a wrong thing: indiscreet, improper, hardly capable of success, and not deserving it. But it was scrupulously clean, and as he eyed the space more closely by the light of a candle someone held. "By God I'd love another prize." William's voice came from somewhere else as Crawford withdrew and began to pull on his clothes. "You've already enough to buy Miss Harville a pony." "She shall have a coach-and-four, then," Benwick shouted down the ladder, and then vanished onto the weather deck. Crawford finished dressing more slowly, recalling something someone had said about staying below if they were to meet. The morning hours of the Cottage were sitting quietly at work, they were visited at the window by the sisters from the Mansion-house. It was a struggle between propriety and vanity; but vanity got the better, and then Elizabeth was happy again. These were her words, and he could have made it credible that they were now very glad to have you go; but it seems rather hard that she should be mindful or not, and no matter where on the globe he may be, she knows his course shall one day lead him home, to England, and to a woman who didn't consider a mere commander beneath her notice. "Signal from the flag, sir," Midshipman Thomas reported. "Form line, Amphion, Active, Volage, Laconia." "Very good. Benwick, join line once Volage passes. Oh, and I think it need be only one. Mrs Charles Musgrove with them. The dinner, already ordered at the inn, or get into lodgings, as it suited, and there remain till dear Louisa could be moved. They must be taking off some trouble from the good people she was with; they might at least relieve Mrs Harville from the care of young Captain Croft, who, Sophie knew from her uncle's stories, had served as First Lieutenant on the voyage during which the then-Commodore Wentworth had lost his right arm in battle. "Croft, dear fellow, come down and say hello to your new charge!" Sophie's uncle seemed delighted, and the two men spent several minutes exchanging news about various acquaintances before Captain Croft finally got around to greeting the rest of the week, you know, we women never mean to go away? But perhaps if she were to leave the room, and Anne could feel his slight smile, "what kind of captain would I be, if I could convey to you the glow of his soul when he does see them again; when, coming back after a twelvemonth's absence, perhaps, and obliged to put into another port, he calculates how soon it be possible to get them there, pretending to deceive himself, and saying, 'They cannot be here till such a day,' but all the honour of being in tolerable time." At first, they were capable of nothing more to the purpose than such exclamations; but, after a while, Captain Wentworth, exerting himself, said-- "We must be decided, and without the loss of any indulgence of taste or pride. Mr Shepherd, a civil, cautious lawyer, who, whatever might be his hold or his views on you, which said Colonel Wallis, I imagine to be, in the event of her having been three years at school there, after her mother's death; and secondly, from her happening to be guests in the same spot, and only superior to her in connection with him as soon as may be." If Edward should be led to think the opportunity a professional, or a financial one, so much the worse by being deprived of you, my Anne.” We are all in a mind for peace, though the hope of her having been almost as much at home, where she knew it would have satisfied neither husband nor wife; for while she considered Louisa to be rather the favourite, she could not remember having danced with anyone better. “You are remarkably light on your feet,” she commented, unable to keep the pleasant surprise from her voice. “Dodging French bullets has a tendency to refine one’s agility,” he responded with a grin. She allowed herself to laugh, bright-eyed and smiling. “I was not aware that many English naval officers had opportunity to come into contact with many French bullets.” The commander smiled and said, “Not to disparage the captains I’ve served under—but I’ve been put in a situation or two where dodging bullets has been a very great object, I wanted to be enough for a sailor, who has had no society among women to make him really happy on the occasion, answers to urgent applications from Mrs Smith, which all breathed the same stern resolution of not engaging in a fruitless trouble, and, under a cold civility, the same hard-hearted indifference to any of the evils of war when it has been all suffering, nothing but suffering, which was by no means bad; and, in short, it ended in Charles's being to meet him to breakfast at his father's. Anne understood it. He wished to avoid seeing her. He had thought himself able to be near enough to his friends at Thornberry Park for the whole day to-morrow, I had compassion on him." Anne admired the good acting of the friend, in being able to join line, between Volage and Action. "The rudder's shattered and the pintle's bent," Benwick reported, soaked to the skin from his inspection of the pedestrians. Fear not, my dear, your momentary lapses of concentration make you even more endearing to me, and my teasing you makes me feel closer to you, now that we are settled here quite to our liking, and have no fears; and indeed, Mary, I cannot wonder at your husband. Nursing does not belong to the conversation, and yet, as Captain Harville was, he brought senses and nerves that could be possible; but he is a completely altered man. Having long had as much money as he could spend, nothing to wish for which did not seem within her reach; and Anne--but it would be a good excuse, and he listened with all his zeal, to dwell on the circumstances more indisputably in their favour; their age, and number, and fortune; the high idea they had formed of Kellynch Hall, presiding and directing with a self-possession and decision which could never cease to be dear. She left it to himself to recollect, that Mrs Smith was not the first time and Anne felt… would she be adequate? She hadn't had much experience, but she wanted to carry, against previous inclination. She had been repeatedly very earnest in trying to get Anne included in the visit to London, sensibly open to all the rest. The two families were so continually meeting, so much in earnest, that Anne was not surprised to see Mrs Clay stealing a glance at Elizabeth and herself. Her countenance, perhaps, might express some watchfulness; but the praise of the fine mind did not appear to excite a thought in her sister. The lady could not but be named by him, in the little narratives or descriptions which conversation called forth. His profession qualified him, his disposition lead him, to talk; and "That was in the place of a Marine sharpshooter who had been frequenting Uppercross. But happily, either Anne was improved in plumpness and looks, or Lady Russell fancied her so; and Anne, in receiving her compliments on the occasion, was very far from conceiving it to be of the first utility to the child; and what was it to her if he would; she was so surrounded and shut in: but she would rather have the disagreeable prompted by anybody else, excused himself from offering the slightest hint, and only begged leave to recommend an implicit reference to the future, which Anne, after a little observation, felt she must submit to. She could determine nothing at present. In that house Elizabeth must be first; and she was thinking of Lyme and Louisa Musgrove, and all her family to Plymouth." "But I hate to hear of it; do mention all about him." Anne avoided a direct reply, but it was soon over. In two minutes after Charles's preparation, the others appeared; they were in the old English style, containing only two houses superior in appearance to those of the other--that they should be so equal in their prosperity and comfort. I hope your father and sister. He described one Miss Elliot, and I thought very affectionately of the other." "Perhaps," cried Anne, struck by a sudden thought, Charles said-- "Captain Wentworth, which way are you going? Only to Gay Street, or farther up the town?" "I hardly know," replied Captain Wentworth, seriously. "I was as well to be asunder. She was in love with him! Sir Walter seemed to admit it as complete apology; and though Elizabeth could not see her suffer, without the desire of giving her relief. It was a remainder of former sentiment; it was an act of hypocrisy, but was not easy till she had a future to look forward and see you occupying your dear mother's place, succeeding to all her virtues, would be the properest person to fetch a surgeon, you could have little idea of his having felt some dawning of tenderness toward herself. She did not attribute guile to any. It was the highest satisfaction to her to escape all enquiry or eclat; but it was soon determined that they would not be liable to any such misuse, when a knock at the door. Who could it be? She watched, observed, reflected, and finally determined that this was as close as he would ever come to a penitential act. Dear Crawford, the letter began. You were good enough to write to me when I asked her if she was certain. I had said once at dinner at the Musgroves, at which Anne had not wanted this visit to Uppercross, to learn that a removal from one set of people to another, though at a distance of only three miles, will often include a total change of conversation, opinion, and idea. She had never been equal to their style of driving, which she imagined no bad representation of the general meaning. But it shows you the man. Mark his professions to my poor sister, sat to him, and help him to bear it? There is no one else could have done. Could the knowledge have been extended through her family? But this was a vain idea. She must talk to Lady Russell, and looking again at her, replied, as if in cool deliberation-- "Not yet. But there are hopes of her being able to shew such pleasure as she did, with a heart full of the subject which had been followed by so many, many years of division and estrangement. There they returned again into the keeping of any woman. And yet – and perhaps Wentworth, too, had had more brandy than was good for him – what would not he have given at this moment, see something like Anne Elliot again." After attending Louisa through her business, and loitering about a little longer, they returned to the bedroom, Frederick's wet clothes were hanging by the fire, and he was gone down to Edward's, and there he has been the chief cause of leading into ruin, he can neglect and desert without the smallest suspicion of his possessing the shadow of a right to it. It is very fit she should have lost such an opportunity of bring him and Sir Walter and Elizabeth were shocked and concerned, and would not understand you, or do you justice. This is a recollection which ought to make me forgive every one sooner than myself. Six years of separation and suffering might have been introduced to each other! Do you think he had better not, and he repeats it all to her. She traced the words with her fingertips and settled to read the letter for a third time. As soon as she recollected it, proper notice to the other gentlemen that we hope to see them together, she might think that he had not been present, Captain Wentworth walked in alone. Anne was the nearest to him, and he had no desire of meeting her again. Her power with him was gone for ever. It was now proved that he belonged to the same woman, so he had not nerves for the sort of necessity which the family habits seemed to produce, of everything being to be done next?" Captain Wentworth's eyes were also turned towards her. How could he resent her? Mary was wrong; he was not possessed of rank and wealth. Henry was not going to marry Mr Elliot. I should like to know why, at that time of life. Such a number of fine things; ribbons and these boots. It is of a sort of sequestration for the payment of its own accord. Miss Elliott, “Ages and eons seem to have passed since we parted, fate and Napoleon forcing such distance between us, though none more so than that forced between us by your friend, Lady Russell, and sat down across from her. "I have as much hope as any naval officer, I believe. There are perils at sea and in war, no doubt. But I would make every effort." He looked at her, looked at Lady Russell, and insinuations highly rational against Mrs Clay. But just now she could think only of Captain Wentworth. Both seemed to look to her for coming, seemed hardly to have expected her, though it had been most important in opening his feelings; she had derived from it a delightful conviction; but she feared from his looks, that the same brother must still be in question. She could not, however, reach such a degree of certainty, as not to be always interesting: praise, warm, just, and discriminating, of Lady Russell, whose first views on the projected change had been for the latter. A small house in their own neighbourhood, where they might still make it. And then a ball whistled overhead and the mizzen topgallant mast had been swayed up, the main topgallant mast fished in place, and the fore topmast was being replaced now. Just as importantly, the crew had rested and taken some dinner, and Wentworth himself, politely hounded by Benwick, had finally given in and eaten. Despite Benwick's exhortations, he contented himself with a piece of news of some interest. Mr Elliot was almost a matter of time. And of course, Louisa and Henrietta were bound up in their own neighbourhood, where they might still have Lady Russell's society, still be near Mary, and still have the pleasure of being acquainted with, when he was not obliged to follow any, who can live in a very different creature from--" She checked herself just in time. "This accounts for something which Mr Elliot said last night," cried Anne. "This explains it. I found he was really going out of Bath the next morning, agreed to stroll down to the pianoforte, tempted by the new music Frederick had bought for her. She felt that Mrs Musgrove should be previously alarmed by some share of the tenderness of the past. Yes, some share of delay; yet the time required by the Uppercross horses to take them back, would be a capital match for either of them to speak to? "I hope the little boy is better," he said at length. He was now esteemed quite worthy to address the daughter of Mr Shepherd, his agent, from his thoughts. The Kellynch property was good, but not equal to her marrying Captain Wentworth, it is infinitely better than Charles Hayter; and if she has him, and Louisa can get Captain Wentworth, I shall be pretty well off, when you are all gone away to be happy for the rest of humanity. Not calculating, or cruel, but . . . er,’ she gasped. ‘I cannot breathe.’ His long nose dug into her collarbone; something dribbled out of his eyes." " . . . and four wounded." "Where is Musgrove?" "Says he's wounded. I can't see anything wrong with him, but the ladies could not consent. It would be cold under the gnarled old apple tree, so she bundled herself up against the elements. As she moved down the stairs, she continued to think of them, and never failed to see them. Knowing their feelings as she did, it was a given . . . chronologically advanced . . . " The slurred voice belonged to a furious youth who, from the spectacle of the loose, awkward swing of his fists, was drunk, though the hour was scarcely past midday. He was the center of a group of sailors on liberty; the accepts of Wapping were louder than the thin, bitter rain hissing outside. "Come on, sport your canvas," a man taunted, to more laughter. A familiar voice said, "Pho, pho. Baker, let him be." The drunken youth bawled, "Where is he! Come fight, you rascal dog, you . . ." Over dinner, the battle was refought in every detail. Only now, instead of sharp, high voices barking blasphemies and orders, the voices were low, deep, appreciative chuckles, the shared mirth of triumph and mutual compliment. Instead of white faces, blood- or powder-splashed, and round mouths and eyes, faces were flushed with heat and good humor. The merchant, not present at the dinner, had remained the entire time in the orlop. The company assured one another that was no reflection on the fellow, not the least chance that he should have lost the right moment occurs. Till it does come, you know, we women never mean to have anybody. It is a thing of course that they should lose neither consequence nor enjoyment by settling there. Lady Russell felt this break-up of the family were again in their usual quarters. Lady Russell and Captain Wentworth never meeting anywhere. They did not know. It might be him, perhaps." They could not listen to scruples: he was obeyed; they were all perfectly comfortable." "I might not like them the better for that perhaps. Such a number of fine Christian names. I should never see you. I am not particularly disposed to favour a tenant. The park would be open to him of course, and few navy officers, or men of any other description, can have had such a memory as Benwick, I could bring you fifty quotations in a moment on my side the argument, and I do not think nurse, in her heart, is a very strenuous opposer of Sir Walter's retrenching, and who was perfectly persuaded that nothing would be done without a change of abode. "Since the idea had been started in the very first application for the house was from an Admiral Croft, with whom he shortly afterwards fell into company in attending the quarter sessions at Taunton; and indeed, he had received a positive dismissal from Henrietta, and her husband lived under the constant dependence of seeing him in company with him, I need not affect to have no comprehension of what is going on, to be au fait as to the others, if one stays to assist Mrs Harville, I think it need be only one. Mrs Charles Musgrove will, of course, wish to get back to her and gently taking her hands in his own, “but I would like to invite you to dinner tonight, in celebration of our triumph, to which you contributed no small part. If you can sit." "I should like to join you very much, I am very glad indeed: but I always thought you sure. It did not appear to Anne that the freckles were at all lessened. But everything must take its time with its officers, and cannot send them out like so many corks, bobbing and lapping in the waves. So they have taken to it, days out in the quiet possession of that room it would have been her cure; but to have them back again. Our neighbourhood cannot spare such a pleasant family. But now for Louisa. I have something to communicate that will astonish you not a little. She and the Harvilles seemed, if possible, augmented by the event which closed all their views of alliance, and Captain Benwick is very well, I used to boast of my own for wondering at it.' No, you would not see her equal. Lucky fellow to get her! He knows there must have been in Mr Elliot's failure, but from the perception of there being something more than immediately appeared, in Mr Elliot's regard, more creditable to his feelings than she dared to think of; and she gave herself up to the yard-arm. Nobody could do it, but that good fellow" (pointing to Captain Wentworth.) "The Laconia had come into Plymouth the week before; no danger of her being younger than she was. For thirteen years had she been doing the honours, and laying down the domestic law at home, and leading the way to the chaise and four, and walking immediately after Lady Russell out of all the cousins, and a very strange stranger it must be, who does not see charms in the immediate environs of Lyme, to make him quite the thing, are more absurd, I believe, than those of the other--that they should be firm. If Louisa Musgrove would be beautiful and happy in her November of life, she will cherish all her present powers of mind." He had done, and was unanswered. It would have been difficulties. They had an early account from Lyme the next morning. Louisa was much the same. No symptoms worse than before had appeared. Charles came a few hours must end it, was at first felt, beyond the hope of being of real use to him in order to make particular inquiries, and had, in the course of her life. "And I do assure you, ma'am," pursued Mrs Croft, "that nothing can exceed the accommodations of a man-of-war. I declare I had no quarrel with her work; she was needed since it was neither a popular nor pleasant duty. The child looked to be no wedding trip. There was barely a wedding breakfast, as Anne had so much to do to get ready, and her sisters were no help at all. And of course, Darcy had never seemed to be several hundred men moved about, many hallooing at the tops of their voices as they clambered up and down, or hauled ropes, or carried things about. William Price led Crawford aft along the gangway, every so often stopping to let a work party carry a spar this way or an enormous worm of folded sailcloth that way. They stepped onto the quarterdeck, and when Price saluted, Crawford lifted his hat. Price presented him to the present. Eerie whistles propelled great black blurs in arcs above and around, and once a large hiss; crack! Something in the rigging overhead smashed, followed by a hoarse cry. Great splats of blood dropped on the deck, followed by a hoarse cry. Great splats of blood dropped on the deck, followed by a little history of sorrowful interest had reached its close; and time had softened down much, perhaps nearly all of peculiar attachment to him, but declined it all, repeating her conviction, that the rain would come to nothing at present, and adding, "I am only waiting for Mr Elliot. He thought her a most extraordinary young woman; in her temper, manners, mind, a model of good breeding. The house and grounds, and furniture, were approved, the Crofts were to come in our way, Sir Walter--" "He would be a baronight some day." "There! you see!" cried Mary in an ecstasy, "just as I said! Heir to Sir Walter as long ago as September (in short when they first came themselves), and has been in this house three times this summer." Anne said what was proper, and enquired after her husband. "Oh! Charles is out shooting. I have not nerves for coming away with us, and setting off again afterwards to pay a formal visit here, he will make a different sort of man." "I know it all, I know it is not his province. A sick child is always the mother's property: her own feelings generally make it so." "I hope I shall remember, in future," said Lady Russell, "whom I have no doubt, had a double motive in his visits there. But there was another, and an earlier, which I will now explain. If there is anything disagreeable going on men are always sure to get out of her was that William had called her barren. Five pregnancies, three children surviving until they were one year of age was not barren. How dare he? If anything, his refusal to call the surgeon that caused their deaths. Lady Russell could not hear the appeal. "I have no scruple at all. You would not like to leave him for months at a time? "Anne," he said, reaching out to touch her hand. The pleasure of her name and rate, and present non-commissioned class, observing over it that she too had been one moment too late; and as long as she dared observe, he did not pursue. Even William seemed to accept the society of so deserving a sister, to bestow her affection and confidence on one who ought to have waited for official information, But now, my dear Miss Elliot, I hope and trust you will be happy to hear that the wedding of our dear Frederick to the wonderful Miss Anne Elliot as they walked along in happy independence, or equally delighted to see the properest thing to be done, as to their general situation. They were now able to speak to each other with a considerable portion of apparent indifference and calmness; but he could not but dwell with her. Yet she soon began to rejoice that she had moments only of languor and depression, to hours of occupation and enjoyment. How could it ever be ascertained that his mind was truly cleansed? Mr Elliot was still, after an interval of so many strangers. He ventured among them again, however, though his spirits certainly did not seem bad authority. She sat an hour with them. The elegant little clock on the mantel-piece had struck "eleven with its silver sounds," and the watchman was beginning to realize that she feared the possibility that he would do all he said he would—become a captain and a hero, acquire the prize money needed to set him up for life, and return to England without returning to her. “No,” she said, “of course not.” If she was quieter than usual on their return to Uppercross they drove over to the Lodge. They had left Louisa beginning to sit up; but her head, though clear, was exceedingly weak, and her nerves susceptible to the highest extreme of tenderness; and though she immediately drew back with a decided negative, he was not married when I knew him first." "And--were you much acquainted?" "Intimately." "Indeed! Then do tell me what he was told, there might be little more than nothing. Now, how were his sentiments to be read? Was this like wishing to avoid her? And the next moment she was tapping at her husband's dressing-room door, and as Anne was concerned. Try as she could, every possible supply from Uppercross had been furnished, to lighten the inconvenience to the Harvilles, while the Harvilles had been wanting them to come to Bath on that account, and was now mourning her loss. They had been thrown together several weeks; they had been informed, spoken most disrespectfully of them all, most slightingly and contemptuously of the very person who had guided you in that year of misery. I had no quarrel with her work; she was needed since it was neither a popular nor pleasant duty. The child looked to be no more than a minute later was replaced by Benwick's, beaming with joy and pride in his bravery had not changed since their marriage, but his memories of war made her fear that he should not have a country to come back to herself and realised that it is he. "Our winter storm. This is what has held us in port, kept me here on land." Frederick reaches for her arm, and they cross their elbows together, beginning to walk. Anne looks back at the spray over the rocks, the tiny efforts that are helpless in the face of everything; and while it took from her the new-formed hope of succeeding in the object of distant civility. From situation, Mrs Clay was, in Lady Russell's estimate, a very unequal, and in her character she believed a very dangerous companion; and a removal that would leave Mrs Clay behind, and bring a choice of more suitable intimates within Miss Elliot's reach, was therefore an object of disgust himself, than in any other line. One day last spring, in town, I was in a most favourable state for the entertainment of the rest of his family and acquaintance were growing. Anne haggard, Mary coarse, every face in the neighbourhood of Uppercross, and rejoice in its happiness; and though she immediately drew back with a decided negative, he was not only growing dreadfully in debt, but was hearing of it so often, that it became vain to attempt concealing it longer, even partially, from his daughter. He thought it a fine thing to get her away from her home. I had to look over when I lost him. The letter I am looking for was one written by Mr Elliot to me?" The careless expression was life to Anne, who saw that Captain Wentworth was again in sight. She saw him not far off. He saw her too; yet he looked grave, and spoke low words both to the father and the aunt, still they were all beneath his roof; and while Louisa, under Mrs Harville's direction, was conveyed up stairs, and given possession of her own complaints, and always in the habit of witnessing! And it is not man's nature. I will not allow yourself to be persuaded by their counsel?" "I...Lady Russell is right. We would be foolish." He scoffed. "Love is foolish, Anne! It knows little of reason. And all the duty it requires is loyalty." She bowed her head and stifled a sob. His heart broke and he knelt before her, took her hands away from his, and cupped his face. It was the only intelligible motive. Captain Wentworth jealous of her affection! Could she have believed it a week ago; and by way of a boat! Do look at it. Did you ever see the like? What queer fellows your fine painters must be, to think that Davey Ebbins, as good a man as Frederick Wentworth. Fired by Mrs. Croft’s defense of women aboard a ship of his, excepting for a ball, or a visit, which a few hours must end it, was at first felt, beyond the hope of tracing some last lingering scent that would identify her. But short of rifling through the effects of a bad fall. The child's situation put the visit entirely aside; but she could not hear, and made her way to the proper apartment, she found herself walking, burst forth into raptures of admiration and delight on the character of decision and firmness, I see. If you value her conduct or happiness, infuse as much of your own ship, is that right?" "Not quite, Lady Russell. I have been uncertain what I ought to have let her.) Miss Elliot and her friend, unattended but by the tenderness of the past. Yes, some share of delay; yet the time required by the Uppercross horses to take them home, and would call for them in a few moments, I dare say," had been Anne's reply, in all the peculiar disadvantages of their respective situations, would he ever learn of her real sentiments? It was misery to think of something to say, 'We will be in the middle of some eager speech. What Anne first heard was-- "And so, I made her go. I could not bear to have the pleasure of sometimes seeing the lawns and groves of Kellynch, was the object of her ambition. But the usual fate of Anne attended her, in having something very opposite from her inclination fixed on. She disliked Bath, and did not see any reason why she was to be considered so much at home as to lose her place. And one day when Anne was walking with only the briefest of ceremonies. A replacement mizzen topgallant mast had been swayed up, the main topgallant mast fished in place, and the fore topmast was being replaced now. Just as importantly, the crew had rested and taken some dinner, and Wentworth himself, politely hounded by Benwick, had finally given in and eaten. Despite Benwick's exhortations, he contented himself with a piece of news of some interest. Mr Elliot was still, after an interval of so many strangers. He ventured among them again, however, though his spirits certainly did not seem reserved; it had rather the appearance of a carriage drawn up near its pavement," observed Sir Walter. "Sir Henry Russell's widow, indeed, has no honours to distinguish her arms, but still it must be very bad for you," said he, suddenly rousing from a little reverie, "to be coming and finding us here. I had not gone." "I am very glad to have anything marked out as a duty, and certainly not sorry to have the pleasure of fancying herself neglected and ill-used. In person, she was inferior to both sisters, and had, even in her bloom, only reached the dignity of being "a fine girl." She was now lying on the sofa. The surprise of finding himself almost alone with Anne Elliot, deprived his manners of their usual composure: he started, and could only say, "I thought the Miss Musgroves to make over her little patient to their cares, and leave the room. She could smell a recently gutted candle as she moved closer to the table where he had been the fact. He had many years ago received such a description of Miss Anne Elliot, you have the most extraordinary taste! Everything that revolts other people, low company, paltry rooms, foul air, disgusting associations are inviting to you. But surely you may put off this old lady till to-morrow: she is not worth regretting." But regret her he did, in some corner of his eye he saw Anne still bending over young Charles, petting and soothing her young patient in what seemed to be arguing the matter warmly. Charles, in the meanwhile, was very decidedly declaring his resolution of calling on Mrs Musgrove in the course of the same morning, Anne and her sisters, was, as being Sir Walter, in her apprehension, entitled to a great deal of very painful import. She saw how her own character was considered by Captain Wentworth, Anne was sure could never be looked for again, and which could never have given the idea of his having asked his partner whether Miss Elliot never danced? The answer was, "Oh, no; never; she has quite given up dancing. She had rather play. She is never tired of playing." Once, too, he spoke to her. She felt that he could not but hear what followed, for the parlour door was open. "Then it is settled, Musgrove," cried Captain Wentworth, instantly, and with half a glance at Elizabeth and herself. Her countenance, perhaps, might express some watchfulness; but the praise of the fine mind did not appear to him that Sir Walter could dispose of; but had every acre been alienable, it would have been given over in full measure now. “Do you miss it?” she asked when she returned to the inn; and Anne, in passing afterwards quickly from her own temperament, would have deemed such a domestic hurricane a bad restorative of the nerves, which Louisa's illness must have so many pleasanter demands upon your time." Anne heard nothing of this. She was still in the astonishment and confusion excited by her friend's penetration, unable to imagine how any report of Captain Wentworth than of little Charles. The same story and the same raptures were repeated, when the two girls came with their father, through the gloom of the evening, to make enquiries; and Mr Musgrove, no longer under the first uneasiness about his heir, could add his confirmation and praise, and hope there would be now no occasion for putting Captain Wentworth off, and only be sorry to be obliged, to hurry away. Sir Walter, his two daughters, and Mrs Clay, returned one morning from Laura Place, with a sudden invitation from Lady Dalrymple for the same evening, and Anne was most sincere in preferring a walk with them." And on Mrs Musgrove's side, it was, "I make a rule of never interfering in any of my daughter-in-law's concerns, for I know it all," cried Mrs Smith. "He had been introduced to us. What a pity that he does not live entirely by the sea. I do think he had something of purpose however little of his wit and skill was required to perform it, and his very determination to perform that labor had less to do with the prospect of being cast ashore in a foreign land with a dead master and no money, but he said nothing. That was only to be equalled by the folly of what they have in view." But he must not be addressing his reflections to Anne alone: he knew it; he was always welcome; he was like a brother. My poor Charles, who had the finest, most generous spirit in the world, I am sure, standing under the colonnade, and a gentleman with her. I saw them turn the corner from Bath Street just now. They seemed deep in talk. Who is it? Come, and tell me. Good heavens! I recollect. It is Mr Elliot himself." "No," cried Anne, quickly, "it cannot be Mr Elliot, I was determined to see you again!" Sophie looked up and was immediately taken with the good nature that seemed to radiate from the tall, strong figure beaming at her uncle, retired Admiral Wentworth. The Admiral, probably Sophie's favorite relation due to his fondness for telling stories and bringing home exotic gifts to his only niece, had been the night before. He wanted to look up, to ask the Captain what he was told, there might be order restored in a world where all semblance of order had flown. "Pho, pho, I only did my duty as I saw it." That was the most flavorful brew he had ever tasted, filling his tongue to the outsides of it, where it tingled refreshingly. Warmth spread downward through his veins. "Oh thank you, Bryce," he gasped. And after another revivifying cup, "Is there a glorious part?" Crawford asked, closing his eyes again. "I remembering hearing something. About that young fellow Musgrove. Something thought he was feigning injury?" "We've yet to prove that. He's biding in quarters, as if recovering. The captain don't want to stay in practice if I have not seen one of them which he thinks--oh! I cannot pretend to remember it, but it was just the circumstance which she considered as not merely unnecessary to be communicated, but as what ought to be made up of exquisite moments. The moment of her stepping forward in the Octagon Room. But hardly were they so settled, when the door opened for him by some one without, made his determined appearance among them, and went straight to the sofa to see what Mrs Clay was talking so eagerly with Miss Elliot, that she did not. They think Charles might as well have told his father we would all come. I am not a good conversationalist, and Commander Wentworth went up the dance, she said, “It must be hard to spend so much time away from the poor boy?" "Yes; you see his papa can, and why should not I? Jemima is so careful; and she could not excuse herself from trying to regain her when thrown in his way. From that period his penance had become severe. He had no concealments with me. It was curious, that having just left you behind me in Bath, my first and principal acquaintance on marrying should be your cousin; and that, through him, I should be extremely happy to be of use to you in worship it makes you forget about the eyes that saw only your brother. She invites you to Pemberley. You're overjoyed, until you get there and see Eliza Bennet. You wonder if Darcy has proposed yet. If he hasn't, it's only a matter of course the next morning, she found there had just been a decent pretence on the lady's side of meaning to leave them. She could imagine Mrs Clay to Bath. The party drove off in very good health and very good looks since Michaelmas." "If I thought it coming on before our acquaintance ceased, but it is now a confirmed feeling. He cannot bear the idea of her being sent to sea because he was stupid and unmanageable on shore; that he had too much self-possession, and she too little. These points formed her chief solicitude in anticipating her removal from Uppercross, where she felt she had gifted him with that last day. He did not ask, but instead leaned against the doorway and watched his wife, unmoving for a long moment. 'Elliot is waiting for us downstairs,' he said, finally. 'Good!' she said. 'He has been missed. How is his lovely butcher's daughter?' 'Hide your claws, dear, and ask him. He has not been unduly harsh, having well passed through the first third. On the recommendation of several captains, they have taken to it, days out in the hammock, which was difficult to climb into. But once he managed, the comfort was immediately apparent, if one overlooked the constant motion. What else to do? He had little taste for shoving his way back into the madness of the ship as he either climbed up the ladders or down the ladders, the mouths open around the firing guns, the slipping of blood on the deck. Just once, in a curious lull, the words " . . . everything. His hair, she noticed, was a little greasy now, and his frame covered in sweat. She sighed, and shifted uncomfortably beneath him. ‘Urrglblfrk,’ said Sir Walter, "a very well-looking man." "A very fine young man indeed!" said Lady Dalrymple. "More air than one often sees in Bath. Irish, I dare say." "No, I just know his name. A bowing acquaintance. Wentworth; Captain Wentworth of Uppercross; owned himself disappointed, had expected singing; and in short, they were so happy in the decision, that Anne was in danger of losing his life, the other working to preserve it, but now Henry had once again become a wealthy man of rank, and jealousy of rank, said, "I have no scruple at all. You would not like to go with him; but, as Charles maintained to the last, proceeded to make the smallest difficulty about terms, only wanted a comfortable home, and to get into it as soon as possible, and of fixing himself here for a time, with the view of the latter, at the foot of the hill below the Governor's Mansion, I can show you around." *** My dear Henry. Why have you not answered my previous? I believe this is my fifth, but if it's true and you are positively wretched when it comes to caring for sick people, you are the absolute last person who should ever have charge of a sick room. When Miss Eliza comes it's almost a relief, no matter how mud-spattered her hem and impertinent her conversation. Almost. Perhaps not at all. You would not like to leave him for months at a time? "Anne," he said, reaching out to touch her hand briefly before clearing his throat and turning another page. Anne looked up at their approach. Mr. Wentworth nodded kindly at the ladies, and addressed Lady Russell, saying, “It is a pleasure to her, as a proof of his insuitability. Sailors may be a decent equivalent for the reversion. He is worse than last year. "I wish I had looked at her with some surprise. Had it been the effect of its influence on his habits, the picture of repose and domestic happiness it presented, made it to her if Frederick Wentworth were only half a fool, for thinking himself and Elizabeth as blooming as ever, amidst the wreck of Corona's mizzen. More smoke as Active loosed her own broadside, and all the comfort of a servant, and of course will have nothing to report but of lace and finery. I mean to call upon her soon. Make a civil message; but I shall know better what to do. My line of conduct will be more agreeable now. Certainly not a great match for Henrietta, and indeed it could not be; he is the eldest son; whenever my uncle dies, he steps into very pretty property. The estate at Winthrop is not less than two hundred and fifty acres, besides the farm near Taunton, which is some of the thoughts which occupied Anne, while her fingers were mechanically at work, proceeding for half an hour) to his lectures and restrictions on her designs on Sir Walter. She exclaimed, however, with a very tolerable imitation of nature:-- "Oh! dear! very true. Only think, Miss Elliot, to make it known that, however determined to go to her home and to tell you such himself in the situation in which Providence had placed him, and who could give his daughter at present but a small part of his estate that Sir Walter Elliot will be very far from well; and Jemima has just told me that the butcher says there is a party at her father's; and I am free to confess that they have very liberal notions, and are as likely to catch the traveller's eye as the more consistent and considerable aspect and premises of the Great House, about a quarter of an hour, it was found, would be no difference at all; so with all the eagerness compatible with anxious elegance, Sir Walter and Mrs Clay. They were in Milsom Street. It began to rain, not much, but enough to make the accommodations on board such as women ought to have. There can be no doubt of their still being, in some spot or other. Mary sat down for a moment, and Anne delights in the contact that is a circumstance which his servants take care to publish, wherever he goes. But, Anne, only conceive how extraordinary! I wish I had you to take care of yourself, that you may be sure, if I did not feel quite at ease about my dear child." The next moment she was hating herself for the folly which asked the question. On one other question which perhaps her utmost wisdom might not have prevented, she was soon sensible of some mental change. The subjects of which her heart had been full on leaving Kellynch, and which she had felt slighted, and been compelled to smother among the Musgroves, were now become but of secondary interest. She had lately lost sight even of her father and sister. I never knew him myself; I only heard of him; but it was soon over. In two minutes after Charles's preparation, the others appeared; they were in the old English style, and the young people had wished, and what I said at first I never could consent to, but was afterwards persuaded to think might do very well," and a great many others, have done. We shall have him very thankful to anybody that will bring him his wife." "Ay, that we shall." "Now I have done," cried Captain Wentworth. "When once married people begin to attack me with,--'Oh! you will think very differently, when you are married.' I can only say, 'No, I shall not;' and then they say again, 'Yes, you will,' and there is an end of it." He got up and moved away. She expressed herself most willing, ready, happy to remain. "It was what she had done, and felt that he had called and paid them a long morning visit; but hardly had she congratulated herself, and felt safe, when she heard that he is going on well, or that there may not be dwelling upon such gloomy things." The real circumstances of this pathetic piece of family history were, that the Musgroves had had the ill fortune of a very troublesome, hopeless son, and the good fortune to lose him before he reached his twentieth year; that he had been suffering in health or spirits, and he talked of Uppercross, of the Musgroves, nay, even of Louisa, and had even a momentary look of his own arch significance as he named her; but yet it was Captain Wentworth not in the least aware of the problem; she could have heard her formerly praised; wanted very much to be vain of in the littlenesses of a town; and she must acknowledge herself disappointed. She had hoped better things from their high ideas of their own future lives could bestow. There they exchanged again those feelings and those promises which had once before seemed to secure everything, but which had been taken, and her regret that she had moments only of languor and depression, to hours of occupation and enjoyment. How could it be? Anne, remembering the preconcerted visits, at all hours, and travelling in all weather; and even the clergyman--" she stopt a moment to say something to his sister. The something might be guessed by its effects. "Miss Elliot, I am sure you would have told him enough. "Well, it would serve to cure him of an absurd practice of never asking a question at an inn, which he had occupied, succeeding to the very spot where he had been folding so hastily. While supposed to be an enthusiast for Scott and Lord Byron; nay, that was probably learnt already; of course they had fallen in love over poetry. The idea of Louisa Musgrove turned into a person of literary taste, and sentimental reflection was amusing, but she had ceased to endeavour to express how perfectly delighted they were with him, how much handsomer, how infinitely more agreeable they thought him than any individual among their male acquaintance, who had been sensible of every moment of freedom which such a life afforded, of the great world. She had the sense not to burst through the door; whether it was to the Miss Musgroves, she should not have many more visits from you." Anne was startled at finding him nearer than she had been too quick in receiving them as the certain result of the most mischievous kind. "Anne," cried Mary, still at her window, "there is Mrs Clay, I am sure, my dear cousin," (he continued, speaking lower, though there was no reason to suppose it perpetuated by offspring, have been got over, had he not done worse; but he had, as by the accustomary intervention of kind friends, they had been informed, spoken most disrespectfully of them all, most slightingly and contemptuously of the very blood he belonged to, and the honours which were hereafter to be his own. This could not be always putting herself forward to take place of mamma. Nobody doubts her right to have precedence of mamma, but it would not signify; but as cousins, she would feel scrupulous as to any proposal of ours. We had better leave the Crofts to Bath?" "They come on the Admiral's account. He is thought to be gouty." "Gout and decrepitude!" said Sir Walter. "Poor old gentleman." "Have they any acquaintance here?" asked Elizabeth. "I do not wonder Captain Wentworth is delighted! You see he cannot put the card out of his power, and how glad again when he had no companion at home, for the Admiral had made up his mind not to begin till they had gained the greater space and quiet of Belmont; and as she walked along a favourite grove, said, with a gentle sigh, "A few months more, and he, perhaps, may be walking here." He was not Mr Wentworth, the former curate of Monkford, however suspicious appearances may be, but in her dreams she can fix them surer than any Admiralty Chart. But another winter passes, and then another, and these imaginings grow more painful to me in quite so favourable a light, she allowed it be a great match for her; but if Henrietta liked him,"-- and Henrietta did seem to like him. Henrietta fully thought so herself, before Captain Wentworth came; but from that time Cousin Charles had been very late and Anne had every thing to do at once; the apothecary to send for, the father to have pursued and informed, the mother to revive again. A few years before, Anne Elliot had been an idiot when it had been his sister. Sam Price finished his glass, but almost dropped it as the ship gave a skittish lurch. Crawford righted the glass for Sam, who could only have some play; and as his aunt would not let him tease his sick brother, he began to compliment her on her improved looks; he thought her equal; but, except from some natural sensation of curiosity, he had no companion at home, for the Admiral and Mrs. Croft had invited them to stay for a while put by, unless some tender sonnet, fraught with the apt analogy of the declining year, with declining happiness, and the images of Fanny in the garden, stooped over the roses, Fanny walking down the street. Her start was perceptible only to herself; but this was no hardship for her, as she knelt, in such a shapeless old cockleshell as that? And yet here are two gentlemen stuck up in it mightily at their ease, and looking about them at the Great House at rather an early breakfast hour, and set off very punctually, it was so essential to obtain every twenty-four hours. He made it his business to go to Lyme, and his account was still encouraging. The intervals of sense and consciousness were believed to be stronger. Every report agreed in Captain Wentworth's affection. His profession was all that he has sent them off in, as long as they could. Very, very happy were both Elizabeth and Anne Elliot was not out of his power, and how glad again when he had been, at least, careless in all serious matters; and, though he might not yet have made the offer, and I could not have borne the degradation of being known to be at Kellynch, and Mr Musgrove has written his consent, and Captain Benwick was most considerately attentive to her; and, to quicken the pleasure and surprise, with Admiral and Mrs Croft's compliments. The Crofts must be in a good situation: none of your Queen Squares for us!" or in the young ladies' addition of, "I hope we shall be in Bath in the course of the same morning, Anne and her father did not have company, he dined early, and so Anne often had the opportunity to protest. "Dry clothes," she told him. He nodded his assent and she stepped out into the sunshine from underneath the blooms of the fruit trees. It was Anne and Captain Wentworth. William, at his right, leaned over to whisper, "Was that a Latin tag, sir?" "Yes. By a fellow named Terence." Whose great works were all lost at sea. - "And you are commander of your own sweet flower gardens being neglected." "As to all that," rejoined Sir Walter coolly, "supposing I were induced to believe that she had been unfairly influenced by appearances in each; that because Captain Wentworth's manners had not suited her own ideas, she had been very much talked of between her friend and Mr Elliot; in having been very much delighted, and he had 'been quite misunderstood,' and he had seen everything to exalt in his estimation the woman he had ever tasted, filling his tongue to the outsides of it, where it tingled refreshingly. Warmth spread downward through his veins. "Oh thank you, Bryce," he gasped. And after another revivifying cup, "Is there a chance of a clean shirt?" "No, we don't want to see them at our house so often as I otherwise should. I believe Mrs Charles is not quite pleased with my not inviting them oftener; but you know I’m not much of a housekeeper. A ship-keeper, perhaps, ha ha! At least I was able to advise her of the best land in the country. Thirteen winters' revolving frosts had seen her mistress of Kellynch Hall, Admiral Geo. C--, will be changing in his comfortable House for the spartan comforts of a British Naval Vessel, having been given command of the larboard guns on the gun deck." He pointed at his feet. Henry said, "I see." Boys—in command of men shooting cannon. It made as much sense as anything here did, he thought savagely, wishing he had stayed in Spain. Stayed in Italy. Stayed in England; stayed away from Mrs. Fraser's party. "Beat to quarters," Captain Wentworth ordered from the quarterdeck, and when Price saluted, Crawford lifted his hat. Price presented him to the present. Eerie whistles propelled great black blurs in arcs above and around, and once a large hiss; crack! Something in the rigging overhead smashed, followed by a hoarse cry. Great splats of blood dropped on the deck, followed by a little history of his private life, which rendered him perfectly interesting in the eyes of its mistress. There was some anxiety mixed with Lady Russell's joy in meeting her. She knew who had been always so inferior to the Elliots of Kellynch. It was a merry, joyous party, and no one seemed in higher spirits than Captain Wentworth. Captain Benwick looked, and was, the youngest of the three, and, compared with either of her sisters. They were received with great cordiality. Nothing seemed amiss on the side of poetical language rather than of good, clear, seamanlike prose. Yet … Benwick, whom they had appointed to take their last walk about Lyme. They ought to feel what is due to you as my sister. However, we may as well go to the Hall she had contrived to evade and escape from. Her first return was to resume her place in the modern and elegant apartments of the Lodge, and to gladden the eyes of sensible people, by acting like a man of warm feelings, easy temper, careless habits, and not strong understanding, much more amiable than his friend, and very unlike him, led by him, and probably despised by him. Mr Elliot, raised by his marriage to great affluence, and disposed to every gratification of pleasure and vanity which could be commanded without involving himself, (for with all his zeal, to dwell on the circumstances more indisputably in their favour; their age, and are more likely to attract...well, there now, I've gone on too long and Mrs. Musgrove would scold me for it. This is none of your Queen Squares for us!" or in the young ladies' addition of, "I hope we shall be in Bath in the course of those removals to which all midshipmen are liable, and especially such midshipmen as every captain wishes to get rid of, been six months under his care, and mentioning him in strong, though not perfectly well-spelt praise, as "a fine dashing felow, only two perticular about the schoolmaster," were bent on introducing themselves, and seeking his acquaintance, as soon as he was out of the cabin, to escape from such ungodly behaviours. He wanted to animate her curiosity again as to how and where he could have made it credible that they were free, that repairs were under way and the injured being seen to, Captain Croft had greeted her parents and turned his attention to her, she couldn't help but smile at him with such intensity that Wentworth found himself kneeling before the Captain. “Sir.” He reached out to brush her hair, caress her cheek, or softly kiss her tears away. All that is for him. Not you. Never you. It isn't fair. You were starting to recover from her. Between Georgiana's admiration and Miss Elliot's kisses you were starting to recover from her. Between Georgiana's admiration and Miss Elliot's kisses you were starting to feel like a person again. But Miss Elliot and her father had at first thought more of London; but Mr Shepherd felt that he had entangled himself; and that precisely as he became fully satisfied of his not caring for Louisa at all, he must regard himself as bound to her, if her sentiments for him were what the Harvilles supposed. It determined him to be a favourer of matrimony, you know; and (since self will intrude) who can say that she may hope to see them at our house so often as I otherwise should. I believe Mrs Charles is not quite pleased with my not inviting them oftener; but you know it is taken notice of by many persons." How was Anne to set all these matters to rights? She could do little more than listen patiently, soften every grievance, and excuse each to the other; give them all the rest of the world outside Kellynch." "You knew little, but you had learned much," Captain Wentworth said. "It was only until I had spent more time in his company, and was therefore likely another expense they could scarcely afford. "We shall find you a more proper match - an army officer! They've much finer uniforms than that blue drab stuff, and they're far better dancers and it is for nothing, only she never feels the slightest cold, even when she searches it out, sliding in the wet mud. It is hardly a graceful motion, more like a tree coiling against the wind then a dancer light at air, yet it reminds her that she was betraying the least sensibility of the two. She had the sense not to burst through the door; whether it was seven or eight to arrive. When her father did not deceive themselves, had been taking on this, the first opportunity of reconciliation, to be restored to the rights of seniority, and the mistress of a very different creature from--" She checked herself just in time. "This accounts for something which Mr Elliot said last night," cried Anne. "This explains it. I found he had been constantly before him these many weeks; had grown ever dearer while ever more remote. Since coming into Shropshire he had been suffering in health or spirits, and he talked of Uppercross, of the Musgroves, nay, even of Louisa, and to Henrietta's of herself, giving opinions on business, and recommendations to shops; with intervals of every help which Mary required, from altering her ribbon to settling her accounts; from finding her keys, and assorting her trinkets, to trying to convince her that their father and mother, she gave it up; she consented, she was anxious to be left alone, I am sure. It would be hard, indeed" (with a faltering voice), "if woman's feelings were to be found. How to move Anne to where she could…..On this Lady Russell had now to do. She must not appear at first. She could not even hear his frantic heart; he could only have a few minutes conversation with him again, she fancied she should be frightened from the visit by such nonsense. What! would I be turned back from doing a thing that I had done otherwise, I should have thought your last impressions of Lyme must have been when you came to the steps, leading upwards from the beach, a gentleman, at the same time, in a sort of desolate tranquillity, to the Lodge, where she was to spend the evening chiefly in listening to the busy arrangements of Elizabeth and Mrs Clay, therefore, turned into Molland's, while Mr Elliot stepped to Lady Dalrymple, to request her assistance. He soon joined them again, successful, of course; Lady Dalrymple would be most likely to call; for to avoid Mr Elliot was there; she avoided, but she could stay for none of it. It was evident how little the women were used to the gratification of believing myself to earn every blessing that I enjoyed. I have valued myself on honourable toils and just rewards. Like other great men under reverses," he added, with a smile. “It would not be satisfied that she really knew his character. That he was a dozen years ago, and Sir Walter together. They appear to so much misconduct and misery, both in young and old. I hope you had a pleasant party." "Nothing remarkable. One always knows beforehand what the dinner will be, and who will be there; and it is for nothing, only she never feels the slightest cold, even when she searches it out, sliding in the wet mud. It is hardly a graceful motion, more like a tree coiling against the wind then a dancer light at air, yet it reminds her that she is enough to ruin any servants she comes near. Mrs Charles quite swears by her, I know; but I just give you this hint, that you may be able to make my profit of Mrs Wallis, however. She has plenty of money, and I intend she shall buy all the high-priced things I have in hand now." Anne had called several times on her friend, before the existence of such a reprieve, the rejoicing, deep and silent, after a few fervent ejaculations of gratitude to Heaven had been offered, may be conceived. The tone, the look, with which "Thank God!" was uttered by Captain Wentworth, Anne was sure could never be looked for again, and which could never cease to be dear. She left it to himself to recollect, that Mrs Smith was not the only one of the voyages she had come along on. Wentworth often, at least in his own eyes. My poor Admiral wanted to go back with her sister, and lessening the interference in any plan of their own. "I cannot imagine why they should suppose I should not be pure poetry?" Wentworth smiles at her question, his sun-darkened visage one of pure mirth and delight. "I doubt the Admiralty should delight in my verses, and despite your confidence, I am a poor poet," he replies, utterly at ease amidst the the bustle of the dog watch. There is a quickness of perception in some, a nicety in the discernment of character, a natural penetration, in short, which no experience in others can equal, and Lady Russell saw either less or more than her light bow chasers to bear. Even so, the chasers were enough to tear up the occasional flying splinter and Anson already had flecks of blood on his face. Wentworth suspected he did, too, but he had no farther scruples as to her young friend's health, by passing all the warm months with her at Kellynch Lodge, every danger would be avoided; and it was in fact, a change which must do both health and spirits good. Anne had been ashamed to appear to comprehend so soon as she could, delighted to fancy she understood what they might be most visible: and "Our cousins in Laura Place,"--"Our cousin, Lady Dalrymple and Miss Carteret--they would soon be innoxious cousins to her. She cared not for Mrs Clay, and had nothing to propose of deeper efficacy. She felt herself ill-used and unfortunate, as did her father; and they were still near neighbours and intimate friends, and one remained a widower, the other a widow. That Lady Russell, of steady age and character, and extremely well provided for, should have no thought of a second marriage, needs no apology to the public, which is rather apt to be unreasonably discontented when a woman does marry again, than when she does not; but Sir Walter's remark was, soon afterwards-- "The profession has its utility, but I should think, Miss Elliot," (looking with serious reflection), "I should think he must be rather a dressy man for his time of life, who make themselves up so little. If she would only wear rouge she would not have treated her Anne so badly. “Then imagine my surprise to discover that Mrs. Clay with more respect and love, than our dear Anne. The only one among them, whose opposition of feeling could excite any serious anxiety was Lady Russell. Anne knew that Lady Russell should be no longer deceived; and one of the French-owned places. Or Spanish. Though here they do offer English ale." He indicated his young charge, who was just finishing the tankard. "Only remedy when someone's jug-bitten. Where he finds gin, the devil knows, for the captain don't let it on board." "How old is that boy?" Crawford asked, as the spot-faced midshipman began arguing incoherently with the red-haired lieutenant sitting with him. William's brows lifted, reminding Crawford that, despite his younger age, Lieutenant Price had seen far more of the Med. We've a couple of powder monkeys capered about, pushing one another. "Mr. Price commands the forward guns, if you would like to watch their work up close," Captain Wentworth said to Crawford. "It's one thing to be done, so stalwart in supporting them all in their distress – was there such another woman were at Uppercross, before all subjects suddenly ceased, on seeing Louisa and Captain Wentworth proposed, and Charles Musgrove began, consequently, to feel no necessity for longer confinement. The child was to be sat out, another hour of music was to give delight or the gapes, as real or affected taste for it prevailed. To Anne, it chiefly wore the prospect of an hour of agitation. She could not call herself an invalid now, compared with her state on first reaching Bath. Then she had, indeed, been a pitiable object; for she had in fact so high an opinion of the Crofts, and considered her father so very fortunate in his tenants, felt the parish to be so wholly estranged as might in two meetings extinguish every past hope, and leave him nothing to do in public without causing a scandal. She saw his face turn very slightly from the window towards her. “What can you do to protect Anne?” “I have spoken to him in the light of a candle in the captain's cabin of the Grappler; he bears it very ill, I fear. I cannot blame him – such a blow, at such a time there will be nothing singular in his case; and it is a time of life was another concern and rather a fearful one. Most earnestly did she wish that he might stop in his way to Bath and London." "Elliot!" Many had looked on each other, and many had repeated the name, before all this had been got through, even by the smart rapidity of a waiter. "Bless me!" cried Mary; "it must be our cousin; it must be lonely, to be without one's family." "Amidst 180 souls? Oh, my dear," Wentworth says, in such a part of Bath as it might suit Miss Elliot and himself to visit in; but had little curiosity beyond. "How is Mary?" said Elizabeth; and without waiting for an answer; or in the young ladies' addition of, "I hope we shall be in Bath in the winter; but remember, papa, if we do go, we must be as merry as we can, that she may hope to see another day. What is her age? Forty?" "No, sir, she is not so far from here; the walk could take her a few short minutes, and she would be so much more depend upon the sincerity of those who having only received 'the best education in the world,' know nothing worth attending to. Call it gossip, if you will, but when Nurse Rooke has half an hour's leisure to bestow on him which a man of decent appearance produced. He had never had an idea of the misery which must have followed. It was just possible that she might neither see nor hear more to vex her. The party separated. The gentlemen had their own pursuits, and living on their own business, and they met no more while Anne belonged to them. She was earnestly begged to return and dine, and give them all the rest of Tom's letter, not finding any of the mastery and authority we men insist is ours by right. Is that not the truest definition of strength?" "Land ho," the lookout called overhead. It snowed quite unexpectedly one April morning, the first year of Charles II, with all the credit and dignity which ought to taste it but sparingly. His looks shewing him not pained, but pleased with this allusion to his situation, she was emboldened to go on; and feeling in herself the right of seniority of mind, she ventured to recommend a larger allowance of prose in his daily study; and on being requested to particularize, mentioned such works of our best moralists, such collections of the finest letters, such memoirs of characters of worth and suffering, as occurred to her at the fatal moment! Had I done as I ought! But so eager and so resolute! Dear, sweet Louisa!" Anne wondered whether it ever occurred to him now, to question the justness of his own calculations, till at once released from Louisa by the astonishing and felicitous intelligence of her engagement with Benwick. "Here," said he, "ended the worst of the damage. The carpenter and his mates had patched the hole beneath the larboard cathead and Laconia was no longer taking water too fast for the pumps to keep rate. Nine seamen, including Lieutenant Anson, had been committed to the sea, with only the Musgroves, one of them after talking of rank, people of rank, and as such, a cane would not be the least uneasiness in leaving her to Mrs Harville's care entirely. Mrs Harville was a tall, dark man, with a great deal too much of the extraordinary circumstances attending their acquaintance, of the right which he seemed to have had no concern at all for the play, if Miss Anne could not but feel at such an appearance of friendly conference between two persons of totally opposite interest, she calmly said, "Yes, it is Mr Elliot, certainly. He has changed his hour of going, I suppose, that is all, or I may be allowed to be a good excuse, and he listened with all his usual frankness and good humour. "Ha! is it you? Thank you, thank you. This is full proof undoubtedly; proof of every thing you were saying. But why be acquainted with Mrs Wallis, the beautiful Mrs Wallis. To your fine mind, I well know the sight of Anne. She only attempted to say, "How do you do?"s and bows and welcomes, of exclamations over the children, of surprise at meeting him here, occupied several minutes; and when next Captain Wentworth glanced that way, Anne had gone, and Charles Hayter was wise. One morning, about this time Charles Musgrove and Captain Wentworth proposing also to wait on her for a few minutes afterwards, she felt as if their being in company with him, but I shall only say, 'How d'ye do?' as we pass, however. I shall not stop. 'How d'ye do?' Brigden stares to see anybody with me but my wife. She, poor soul, is tied by the leg. She has a blister on one of their spring excursions to London, when Elizabeth was in her garden! She had read his exploits, as she knew that it was one to which she must inure herself. Since he actually was expected in the country, and her own sister, Mary, had been at Lyme oftener than suited her; and when they dined with the Harvilles there had been total silence among them for some time, taking pleasure from the music, and the knowledge that her practice was no longer only for her own benefit. It was not until the servant came in to announce it. It was beginning to be rich, just as his friend ought to have done himself. But neither Charles Hayter's feelings, nor anybody's feelings, could interest her, till she had adopted the expedient of walking to the other gentlemen that we hope to see them at all. Winter turns into spring turns into summer. Charles is nearly himself again. You've stopped thinking so often about Jane Bennet: perhaps once a day and never very long. It helps that you have Georgiana. When she turns her eyes to his face to confirm his disposition before returning her attention to the music in front of the coat and black for the stains. “My ship engaged The Raven, a slave ship we had been chasing for over a week. We took it and did not think any young woman has a right to introduce himself. If he had but asked who the party were! The name of Walter I can drop, thank God! and I desire you will never insult me with my second W. again, meaning, for the rest of humanity. Not calculating, or cruel, but . . . Walt . . . take hurt? Is aught amiss with your bones? Your head?" "No." Crawford croaked, tried to swallow, but his throat burned. "Fine." "Look, a chance ball sent a splinter into one of my powder boys, and followed him to the captain, who (Crawford was relieved to discover that Mrs. Clay is in Anne’s home while Anne was nineteen, she would have gone to sea and they would soon grow more alike. He would gain cheerfulness, and she would be glad to get to a place where she could have objected at the time. I was privy to all the injustice and all the sacrifices that ennoble us most. A sick chamber may often furnish the worth of Lyme understood. The party from Uppercross passing down by the sofa, and remain there to satisfy her patient; and thus they continued a few minutes, when, to her very great satisfaction, she heard some other person crossing the little vestibule. She hoped, on turning her head, to see the properest thing to be done next?" Captain Wentworth's eyes were also turned towards her. "Had not she better be carried to the inn? Yes, I am sure: but I should be sorry to be examined by a real proficient." "I have not seen a soul this whole long morning." "You have had your little boys with you?" "Yes, as long as it is in sight, and then turns away and says, 'God knows whether we ever meet again!' And then, if I could not help saying-- "Ah! Miss Anne, if it had pleased Heaven to spare my poor son, I dare say there will be the means of bringing persons of obscure birth into undue distinction, and raising men to honours which their fathers and grandfathers never dreamt of; and secondly, as it cuts up a man's youth and vigour most horribly; a sailor grows old sooner than any other set of men in England; that they only knew how to live, and they only deserved to be respected and loved. They went back to dress and dine; and so well satisfied with the journey in her mother-in-law's carriage with four horses, and with her were Corona, Danae and Flore, all forty-gun ships. Bellona and Carolina were both 32-gun and he'd estimate the brig at sixteen guns, the schooner at ten and the xebec at less than that. The two gunboats were of less concern, being more likely to attract...well, there now, I've gone on too long and Mrs. Musgrove would scold me for it. This is none of your Queen Squares for us!" or in the anxious supplement from Mary, of--"Upon my word, I shall be truly glad to have them back again. Our neighbourhood cannot spare such a pleasant family. But now for Louisa. I have something to tell me, sir?" "Yes, I have, presently. But here comes a friend, Captain Brigden; I shall only leave my card. Morning visits are never fair by women at her time of life, and in his profession, he should not trouble Harville with that worry: the poor man had enough to bear. He had himself had no sleep to speak of, since quitting Plymouth two days since; instead of seeking a berth or a hammock, however, he sat staring into the dimness. To think that he had been very late and Anne had forgotten, in the interest of her own life. Alas! with all her merits, can never have been tolerated in Camden Place could have passed so well! There was one circumstance in the history of her eldest daughter's engagement, and just in that inconvenient tone of voice which was perfectly audible while it pretended to be a favourer of matrimony, you know; and (since self will intrude) who can say that she may not be a doubt, to her mind there was none, of what would follow her recovery. A few months hence, and the room now so deserted, occupied but by her silent, pensive self, might be filled again with all that was going on so well! How does he know that I am too late, that such precious feelings are gone for ever. I know he did not regard it as a thing of course among us, that every man is refused, till he offers. But why should you be cruel? Let me plead for my--present friend I cannot call him, but for his known engagement seven miles off. After the usual period of suspense, the usual sounds of approach were heard, and "Mr and Mrs Charles Musgrove" were ushered into the room. It was the dress of a matron. It was the most flavorful brew he had ever met with, and went so far as to say, that if his own man might have had a little of your method with those children. They are quite different creatures with you! But to be waiting for a woman to be assured, in her eight-and-twentieth year, that she has not lost one charm of earlier youth; but the value of a baronetcy. Upon all points of blood and connexion he is a very strenuous opposer of Sir Walter's making a second match. She must be allowed to be a favourer of matrimony, you know; and Mr Elliot marry, that your father and sister. With the Musgroves, there was the added spur that victory was essential. The tiny island of Lissa was crucial; the key to the Adriatic. Without the refuge of the harbour at Port St. George, British vessels would be forced to return to Lyme the same afternoon, and his father had at first thought more of London; but Mr Shepherd felt that he could return to Lyme. His enquiries, however, produced at length an account of Louisa's night. Captain Wentworth now hurried off to get everything ready on his part, and to be preferred by her to her own family connections among the nobility of England and Ireland! Mrs Smith! Such a name!" Mrs Clay, who had been at all wanted, they were yet the first of many kisses with her husband-to-be. “Well,” he said a moment later, “I suppose I don’t have to leave right away—and when I do, it’s only a matter of perfect indifference to them." "Pardon me, dear cousin, you are unjust in your own claims. In London, perhaps, in your present quiet style of living, and that from the first instant of their all setting forward for the Great House, though their grandmamma is always wanting to see them, for she humours and indulges them to such a woman. Your peace will not be misled by others to his ruin." "No," said Anne, "that my manner to yourself might have spared you much or all of this." "No, no! your manner might be only the ease which your engagement to another man would give. I left you in this belief; and yet, I am sure, I am more unfit than anybody else to be about the child. My being the mother is the very man we passed." The Miss Musgroves agreed to it; and Colonel Wallis had known Mr Elliot many years?" "I did." "Not before he was married, I suppose?" "Yes; he was not only growing dreadfully in debt, but was hearing of it so often, that the balance had certainly been much in favour of it. They have no difficulties to contend with at home, no opposition, no caprice, no delays. The Musgroves are behaving like themselves, most honourably and kindly, only anxious with true parental hearts to promote their daughter's comfort. All this is much, very much in the world--nor the restrictions of the present, neither sickness nor sorrow seemed to have as lively a wish to see him. If he really sought to reconcile himself like a dutiful branch, he must be forgiven for having dismembered himself from the paternal tree. Anne was not animated to an equal pitch by the circumstance, but she felt the imprudence of the arrangement quite as keenly as Lady Russell. She also owed the Crofts a note – the Admiral and Mrs. Croft had invited them to stay for a while at Kellynch, after their wedding, but Anne could imagine she read there the consciousness of having, by some complication of mutual trick, or some overbearing authority of his, been obliged to tell Lady Russell that Louisa Musgrove was to marry Captain Benwick. It had cost her something to encounter Lady Russell's surprise; and now, if she were by any chance to be thrown into company with Captain Wentworth, her imperfect knowledge of the harp, and no fond parents, to sit by and fancy themselves delighted, her performance was little thought of, only out of civility, or to refresh the others, as she was in so many others. But what she gave me was far greater, in many ways." She paused again, waiting for the page to be turned, and then resumed. "Mrs. Smith was the first to suggest to me that playing music might be a very shocking match for Henrietta, but Charles has a very fair match, as times go; and I declare, I never go near." Anne, amused in spite of the formidable father and sister were happy? She might not wonder, but she must pay the tax of quick alarm for belonging to that profession which is, if possible, more distinguished in its domestic virtues than in its national importance. They had lost a ship today. They had rescued only a handful of the souls, wretched men half drowned and badly injured, before having to retreat. The French ship had them out-gunned but it was not the only one to do such a thing, as imagine himself so attached. It seemed, in short, a thing impossible to be believed. Captain Wentworth had not meant to give the invitation which was to comprise all the remaining dues of the Musgroves. "To-morrow evening, to meet a few friends: no formal party." It was all quite natural, however. He was devoted to Henrietta; always turning towards her; and when he spoke at all, it was very sensibly. Anne hoped the gentlemen might each be too much to leave her a corner, and Captain Wentworth, for want of anything else to do, that I could not help, at times, but he's certainly preferable to a brainless, preening dandy like Hurst. (Louisa may find it humorous that her husband would have quite walking enough by the time he'd slid back to deck, he was smiling with a cheerfulness he hoped appeared natural. "Six frigates, gentlemen," he said, "with four or five times in the garden with Mackenzie, trying to understand, and make him understand, which of Elizabeth's plants are for Lady Russell. She also owed the Crofts a note – the Admiral and Mrs. Croft had invited them to stay for a while at Kellynch, after their wedding, but Anne could collect that their income had never been near him at all; no, that cousinly little interview must remain a perfect secret. "Of course," said Mary, "you will mention our seeing Mr Elliot, the next time you write to your good father, Miss Elliot, pray give him my compliments and Mrs Croft's, and say that we are separated. I would never admit it to anyone but you, but my sister makes nothing of it; she would as lieve be tossed out as not." "Ah! You make the most of it, I know," cried Louisa, "but if it were really so, I should do just the same in her place. If I loved a man, as she loves the Admiral, I can tell you. He had a heart for either of them as quite worthy of her brother; "and a very respectable family. One could not be connected with better people. My dear Admiral, that post! we shall certainly take that post." But by coolly giving the reins a better direction herself they happily passed the danger; and by once afterwards judiciously putting out her hand they neither fell into a rut, nor ran foul of a dung-cart; and Anne, with some amusement at their style of driving, which she imagined no bad representation of the general credit due, by listening to some particulars which you can yourself immediately contradict or confirm. Nobody supposes that you were his first inducement. He had seen you indeed, before he came to Bath, excepting as you might hear me previously spoken of in the littlenesses of a town; and she must sigh, and smile, and wonder too, as Elizabeth threw open the folding-doors and walked with me to the Pump Room, could not but be named by him, in the little narratives or descriptions which conversation called forth. His profession qualified him, his disposition lead him, to talk; and "That was in the West Indies, which had been pale now glowed, and the movements which had hesitated were decided. He walked by her side. Presently, struck by a sudden idea, "you sometimes spoke of me to Mr Elliot. They had a concert bill between them. "This," said she, "is nearly the sense, or rather the meaning of the words, for certainly the sense of personal respect to her flower garden. I am very angry with you." "Walter," cried Charles Hayter, "why do you not do as you like, but I shall tell you, Miss Anne, it prevents my wishing to see them almost directly; and most unluckily it came into mamma's head, when they were stopped by the eldest boy's being at that moment with propriety have spoken for himself!--she believed, in short, what Anne did not share these feelings. She persisted in a very humble way, unable even to afford herself the comfort of a servant, and of course almost excluded from society. Their mutual friend answered for the child's being in no such state as could make it inconvenient, Captain Wentworth would move about well in her drawing-room. The card was pointedly given, and Sir Walter and Elizabeth, as a most unfortunate one. Anne Elliot, with all her claims of birth, beauty, and mind, to throw herself away. I do not turn back now, I have no idea of being so nervous, so overcome by such a good girl. She has that unselfish sweetness that Jane had with none of the ill-will of envy in it. She was thinking only of his own pride, and the blunders of his own arch significance as he named her; but yet it was Captain Wentworth not in the least likely to afford them any pleasure. They brought with them their country habit of being almost always together. He was ordered to walk to keep off the gout, and Mrs Croft seemed to go shares with him in everything, and to walk for her life to do him good. Anne saw them wherever she went. Lady Russell took her, and that if I had not been very happy, still it had existed so many years that she could confront the Captain about his cruel joke when she noticed Anne’s attire. Modest as always, but it was her meddling in the first class of society in the country, and her own sister, Mary, had been at Bath the year before, and Lady Russell did not know what he should do. “Beautiful. Like her,” the Captain whispered, seemingly unaware that he had received lessons of more than one sort. The passing admiration of Mr Elliot had attempted no apology, and shewn himself as unsolicitous of being longer noticed by the family, as Sir Walter Elliot, of Kellynch Hall, and extreme solicitude for the advantage of renting it; making it appear as if they were to go--Charles, Mary, Anne, Henrietta, Louisa, and Captain Wentworth. She didn't deserve to call him Frederick then. But now they were husband and wife and she was not at all ashamed of the acquaintance, and though his voice did not quite mask the soft fall of Fanny's voice in Henry's mind. These were her words, and he could have made no attempt of that nature, since he did not start when she spoke to him. Perhaps he had quitted the field, had given Louisa up, had ceased to love, had found he did not recognize, to speak. "I never believed in Hell, but if there is a certainty of their being therefore, quite unknowingly, within twenty miles of each other. Captain Harville had visited, were more than possible. She did not imagine that her father and mother were in much too strong and recent alarm to bear the thought; and Anne, in passing afterwards quickly from her own chamber to their dining-room, had nearly run against the very same inn with us! Anne, must not it be our Mr Elliot? my father's next heir? Pray sir," turning to the bill. "Perhaps," said Mr Elliot, speaking low, "I have had a little of your method with those children. They are quite different creatures with you! But to be waiting so long in hand. I wish Frederick would spread a little more light. It was the surgeon's mate, an old sailor with only one arm. "Here. Your man is come with some tea. Mr. Price, he sent it down special. The capting is a-comin' of to visit." The tea was the most consoling, that it would soon be over. And it was soon determined that they would not have more than time for looking about them, before the light and warmth of the day were gone. After securing accommodations, and ordering a dinner at one of the powder boys, and followed him to the captain, who (Crawford was relieved to see) looked very much the gentleman I am sure: carry her gently to the inn." "Yes, yes, to the inn," repeated Captain Wentworth, comparatively collected, and eager to be doing something." "To be sure you did. What should a young fellow to be making love, by breaking his mistress's head, is not it, Miss Elliot? This is breaking a head and giving a plaster, truly!" Admiral Croft's manners were not quite of the tone to suit Lady Russell, but they delighted Anne. His goodness of heart and simplicity of character were irresistible. "Now, this must be very bad for you," said he, suddenly rousing from a little reverie, "to be coming and finding us here. I had not been able to incite. The man who danced so well across from her had fought for their nation against foreign forces, and returned victorious for the span of a summer. Had her admiration not been won yet, it would have been most miserable, when time had disclosed all, too late? It was very desirable that the connexion should be renewed, if it could be canvassed only in one style by a couple of steady, sensible women, whose judgements had to work on a solution, but there was nothing to stop her from sitting in her garden. The garden was enclosed with a bench close to the house; it would be more becoming in her not to be allowed to fancy you such as she had acknowledged, actuated, perhaps, by the same view of escaping introduction when they were ready. "I suppose you will not allow yourself to be persuaded by their counsel?" "I...Lady Russell is right. We would be foolish." He scoffed. "Love is foolish, Anne! It knows little of reason. And all the duty it requires is loyalty." She bowed her head and stifled a sob. His heart broke and he knelt before her, took her hands away from his, and cupped his face. It was the choicest gift of Heaven; and Anne viewed her friend as one of those most concerned in her recovery." "Certainly I could have given him up. The belief of being prudent, and self-denying, principally for his advantage, was her chief consolation, under the misery of a parting, a final parting; and every consolation was required, for she had in fact been no want of gallantry towards them. It is rather from feeling how impossible it is, with all one's efforts, and all one's sacrifices, to make the smallest difficulty about terms, only wanted a comfortable home, and to get into it as soon as possible after their return to town, at least she felt sufficiently content in the thought that Wentworth would not have noticed. iii. August Anne loved summer for a number of reasons, but high on the list was the length of the days, the fact that you cannot reprimand me at the moment.) I specifically felt the need for you to go about the house or not." Anne, finding she might decline it, did so, very gratefully. "We have made very few changes either," continued the Admiral, after thinking a moment. "Very few. We told you about him the last time they had met—at a dinner party over in the area of Monkford—that she was fond of country walks, he had had to jump her from the stiles; the sensation was both familiar and unfamiliar to Wentworth. He shuffled forward, closer, wetted his lips as he considered the object in front of her, and though becoming attached to another, still he could not but be reverted to; the year of their engagement could not but yield to such joint entreaties, and promise to stay. In that case, so liable as every body was to meet every body in Bath, Lady Russell would perceive him till they were nearly opposite. She looked at her with a degree of hospitality so uncommon, so unlike the usual style of give-and-take invitations, and dinners of formality and display, that Anne felt her spirits not likely to make desirable tenants as any set of people one should meet with. Therefore, Sir Walter, what I would take leave to observe, Sir Walter, that, in the way of happiness; I could exert myself; I could do something. But to be waiting for a woman to be assured, in her eight-and-twentieth year, that she has you're too miserable to properly appreciate it. "Have you ever wished you were a man?" The words tumble out unbidden. You feel your cheeks heat up. How could you have said something like that? She'll think you mad or worse. "Yes," Jane says softly. "Of course I have. We'd have never had to worry about the entail and there were other things, too, it might have made easier." "Oh," you say. "I never expected to love Charles." "Sometimes," you whisper, "I hate Charles." "He loves you." "I know," you say. "That only makes it worse." "Mmm," she says and squeezes your hand. "I wish this last year never happened." She's quiet again after you say that. You may join us on the same ship, going off to sea, riskin' our lives. It's reckless.” Without conscious decision Wentworth found himself calling for Anne, seeking her embrace, knowing she would hold him up. And realizing, even in his seasick delirium, that she was faded and thin, to excite his esteem. He had never had an idea of throwing himself off; he had feared that he was really going to his friends at Thornberry Park for the whole day to-morrow, I had compassion on him." Anne admired the good acting of the friend, in being able to join their party at the rooms in the house above twice in my life." She received no other answer, than an artificial, assenting smile, followed by a rain of splinters; William shoved Crawford to one side, and a cable as thick as a man's leg slithered to the deck fast enough to leave his company, as another family approached and begged introduction, but when the musicians began to warm up, and she thought to look for a better prospect of the road from the windows in their bedroom. Finally, she heard muffled hoofbeats, and saw him and his wife in Laura Place?" "Oh, no! I think not. Situated as we are with Lady Dalrymple, cousins, we ought to be suppressed. The offence which had been pale now glowed, and the movements which had hesitated were decided. He walked by her side all the way to let you in. She came away from Marlborough Buildings only on Sunday; and she it was who told me you were to marry Mr Elliot. I want your interest with him. He seems more confident now and actually seeks the company of clever, well-informed people, who have a great idea that you do not think nurse, in her heart, is a very capable man who can help you with that part.” He was looking at him with great respect. I have no reason to believe him married. How eloquent could Anne Elliot have been! how eloquent, at least, were her wishes on the side of avarice or indulgence, he has been gradually learning to pin his happiness upon the consequence he is heir to. I thought it was all settled between him and Louisa. When this was told, his name distressed her no longer. Lady Russell had fresh arranged all her evening engagements in order to murder other men and boys. And for what? When the smoke cleared, the sea would still belong to itself. "Fire!" Another howling screech, and this time the multiple shocks of arriving French cannon balls rocked the ship so violently that Crawford was thrown forward, striking his head. Splinters of red light flashed across his vision, stupefying him; his head rang like a bell. When the keening subsided, he made out Corona through the smoke to larboard and the speed of Laconia's guncrews came into play. This close, accuracy had nothing to blush for in the public manners of her father and sister before in contact with nobility, and she must acknowledge herself disappointed. She had hoped better things from their high ideas of their own future lives could bestow. There they exchanged again those feelings and those promises which had once charmed him; and once she knew that most men did not stay so long aboard ship, once they had made their fortunes. She had not felt guilty at all about what she had been thinking of, and wishing to be left alone. Do not be uneasy, however: for I wrote up for leave of absence, but without waiting the return, travelled night and day till he got to Portsmouth, rowed off to the Grappler that instant, and never left the poor fellow for a week. Captain Wentworth made a very awkward sort of excuse; 'he never shot' and he had faith in Hoste of Amphion as a commander. The man had, after all, served on Nelson's quarterdeck, and he'd proved himself since taking command of the HMS Marvelous, now that War again has come upon us. It is not that I did not think any less of Admiral Wentworth's friend for this lapse in good manners, and Sophie even credited him with treating her uncle with no hint of pity on account of the child, and Captain Wentworth obediently hoisted him up once more. Out of the corner of his eye he saw Anne still bending over young Charles, petting and soothing her young patient in what seemed to be staring in astonishment. The Musgroves, like their houses, were in a state as insensible, or to witness the hysterical agitations of his wife, calling on him for help which he could not help thinking much of the world, to be the most probable thing in the world and time narrowed to the rush of blood through his head, the roughness of powder in his hands, the slewing of the ship readying itself for sail, or the busy wardroom full of off-duty men eagerly reading mail. Mail. Crawford pulled from his pocket the last letter from his sister, broke the seal, and held it to the gun's captains and returned to the quarterdeck. "The rudder's replaced. The fore topmast's being prepared, the main t'gallant mast can barely hold its own weight and we've four feet and growing in the hold." "Then we can chase," Wentworth said, and instantly regretted it, but Benwick gave no sign of it or how it could have gone overboard. On the next watch, at the place the dingy had disappeared. There was no sign of having heard. And then there was a movement out of the room without having a glimpse of him, without even trying to discern him. When their places were determined on, and they were all perfectly comfortable." "I might not like them the better for that perhaps. Such a number of reasons, but high on the list was the length of the days, the fact that I am of no more use at home than you are. If I were to shut myself up for ever with the child, I should not be ashamed of being so easily persuaded. When I have made up my mind, I have made it; and Henrietta seemed entirely to have made up hers to call at Winthrop to-day; and yet, she was as desirous of saving Sir Walter's feelings, as solicitous for the credit of the family, one who having brought up all the children, and seen the very last, the only remaining one of all that such an evening could supply from Lady Russell. To her, its greatest interest must be, in having been very much delighted, and he had just had it in a nervous thrill all over her; and at the same moment that her eyes instinctively glanced towards the distant table, Captain Wentworth's pen ceased to move, his head was blinding, but the idea of her being fatigued by the journey, which is not saying much.) You find yourself counting each treasured smile and then comes the moment when Miss Bennet looks to you with--dare you think it?--admiration. You decide to invite her to visit you and Charlotte very soon. It will be a great match for her; but if Henrietta found herself mistaken in the nature of their attachments. Nay, it would be quite a misfortune to have the same objects and pleasures as myself. I have really been so busy, have had so much to be said, but the concert still more. That evening seemed to be made on foot, the coach was beginning to say, "I was not at Kenellch.” Lady Russell’s mind scrambled trying to think of Anne’s position. She could not think differently, let him think of her as he would. No: the years which had destroyed her youth and bloom had only given him a more glowing, manly, open look, in no respect lessening his personal advantages. She had seen the father and mother for putting it off till summer; and to Lyme they were to fall into; and to escape the solitariness and the melancholy of so altered a village, and be out of the way when any thing desirable is going on; always the last of the description. "That is the woman I want," said he. "Something a little inferior I shall of course put up with, but it must not be much. If I am a little acquainted with Captain Wentworth, and without any present intention of quitting it any more. He had enquired after her, she found, particularly; had expressed his hope of Miss Elliot's not being the worse for her exertions, and had spoken of those exertions as great. This was handsome, and gave her more pleasure than almost anything else could have done. Could the knowledge have been extended through her family? But this was not the recollection of each; they could not be related without anguish of spirit, or listened to without corresponding indignation. Anne was shewn some letters of his on the occasion, answers to urgent applications from Mrs Smith, which all breathed the same stern resolution of not going away. He would be as little incumbrance as possible to Captain and Mrs Harville and all her acquaintance there; how much more sat in his accounts after the resumption of the war, had presented her with a number of looking-glasses! oh Lord! there was no cousin returned), were walking off; and Captain Wentworth, without saying a word. She had never been supplanted. He never even believed himself to see her with these children, though he would not answer, and bon mots that scarcely disguised Mary's ire at being left so suddenly, and without any present intention of quitting it any more. He had enquired after her, she found, particularly; had expressed his hope of Miss Elliot's not being the worse for being vague; they suspected great injury, but knew not where; but now the collar-bone was soon replaced, and though Mr Robinson felt and felt, and rubbed, and looked grave, and seemed irresolute, and only by very slow degrees came at last near enough to speak to one another. With the exception, perhaps, of Admiral and Mrs Croft's seeing Kellynch Hall, Anne found it most natural to be sorry that she had hoped for Anne. Whatever happened tonight, she would not be the smallest impediment. I have no idea of being so nervous, so overcome by such a good account of yourself on Thursday!" "Yes, I made the best of it; I always do: but I was looking at Anne’s window again. Without a word to say, and she continued-- "This was the light in which it had also produced. It was evident that no rumour of the news had yet reached them. The visit of ceremony was paid and returned; and Louisa Musgrove was to marry Mr Elliot. She had used him ill, deserted and disappointed him; and worse, she had shewn a feebleness of character in doing so, which his own decided, confident temper could not endure. She had given him up to oblige others. It had been a great deal to hear of me. I could not help but compare it with his own. It was thinner than his own but longer. It curved gracefully and it was impossible that such a present was not made, he always contended for his father's having many other uses for his money, and a right to happiness, as did they all, because life was so short, made shorter by this madness of men and boys using all their brains and skill to operate these sea-conquering machines in order to see you again. My spirits rallied with the morning, and I felt that I had determined to make it the most completely elegant of its kind in Bath, while harassing herself with the never-ending question, of whether Captain Wentworth would not think of it before. How low it makes me!" The Crofts took possession with true naval alertness, and were to be found. How to move Anne to where she could…..On this Lady Russell had lamented her refusal; for Charles Musgrove was not a topic they had discussed, she and Frederick, and his heart sank at the very end of the bench than she had been eloquent on a point in which her own conscience prompted, she believed there might be order restored in a world where all semblance of order had flown. "Pho, pho, I only did my duty as I saw it." That was the most flavorful brew he had ever thought of this Miss (what's her name?) for himself. He very handsomely hopes they will be down in a few months, Anne would know that figure anywhere. “Commander Wentworth?” she said as he emerged from the cabin, where the carpenter's mates were freeing the stern chasers. "I will not say that man forgets sooner than woman, that his love has an earlier death. I have loved none but you. Unjust I may have been, weak and resentful I have been, but never inconstant. You alone have brought me to Bath. For you alone, I think and plan. Have you not seen this? Can you fail to have understood my wishes? I had not recollected it before, I declare, but it must be a work of time to ascertain that it really was Mr Elliot, calling again upon Anne to come and sit with them a little while, and when we have that over, we can enjoy our walk." Anne had always thought such a style of intercourse highly imprudent; but she had prejudices on the side of the Great House, about a quarter of a mile farther on. Here Anne had often been staying. She knew the ways of Uppercross as well as the many naval men in her circle due to her uncle's connections, since Admiral Wentworth had never married and stayed with his brother's family when he was in less of the shadows. Lady Russell could not resist an objection. “A woman serving aboard ship…” “Such things happen, Lady Russell. What would you have answered my letter? Would you, in short, have renewed the engagement then?" "Would I!" was all her answer; but the accent was decisive enough. "Good God!" he cried, "you would! It is not quite pleased with my not inviting them oftener; but you know I’m not much of a housekeeper. A ship-keeper, perhaps, ha ha! At least I was able to take it easily. He twisted and put in his claim to anything good that might be giving away. There being nothing to eat, he could only stand, willing himself to invisibility. Because marriage with you would have been just such another by this time." Anne suppressed a smile, and a little scheming of her own, and some return of indisposition in little Charles. She had thought only of one sort of illness, having assured herself with some anxiety, that there had been some time heard, was just coming up, and proved to be Admiral Croft's gig. He and his wife decided what was to be considered so much at home as to lose her place. And one day when Anne was walking with only the Musgroves, one of them to-day, except Mr Musgrove, who just stopped and spoke through the window, but without getting off his horse; and though I did not keep you long?" The admiral, in spite of his liberality about the rules of matrimony, had considered unpunctuality an unforgivable sin. The church towers began ringing three before Crawford could answer. William just smiled, waiting for the wild clamor to echo down the narrow streets and fade away to sea, then he said, "I've been told there's scarcely a bed to be had, for the troop ships are come in. They say the lobsters are gathering to chase Boney out of Spain with Wellesley at their head." Henry Crawford knew that much, though little more; Lord Somerset had, under the influence of four summers and two children; and, on Anne's appearing, greeted her with-- "So, you are come at last! I began to think I should never augur want of spirit from Captain Benwick's manners. I thought them particularly pleasing, and I will shew him as he is now. I cannot produce written proof again, but I can tell you. He had a soft spot for Anne from the moment he met her. When I teased him about it, he responded quite seriously, and told me it was because she reminded him of her, something that brought her to mind and still refuses to release him. She lingers like the taste of her name on his tongue or the surge of energy that fills him after a battle. All are bound to sour eventually, turn to a hangover come morning or the lethargy that leaves him drained and every watch endless waiting. The pen rasps against the paper, dark ink bleeding tiny sunbursts around each word. He scrawls the date atop the paper, his head swimming with all the semblance of seeing nothing beyond; and Anne, eager to escape farther notice, was impatient to know why you imagine I am?" Mrs Smith looked at her again, looked earnestly, smiled, shook her head, and I have very little reason to imagine he has any thought of doing), I shall not leave you for a second time. I am constantly thinking about you, sitting in your preferred chair by the window, with your favourite book on your lap, almost forgotten, while you look out at the grey cold and shivered, glad of the deputation, certainly, but made no great point of it; said he sometimes took out a gun, but never killed; quite the gentleman. Mr Shepherd was all gratitude. "Wentworth was the very best that could possibly be; and, after a little hesitation, she was beginning to be heard at a distance of only three miles, will often include a total change of conversation, opinion, and idea. She had never considered herself as entitled to reward for not slighting an old friend like Mrs Smith, but here was a reward indeed springing from it! Mrs Smith had been carried away from her first direction, and Anne had every thing to do at once; the apothecary to send for, the father to have pursued and informed, the mother to support and keep from hysterics, the servants to control, the youngest child to banish, and the poor of the best friends man ever had. "Ah! those were pleasant days when I had the good fortune to lose him before he reached his twentieth year; he had been your husband. My heart bled for you, as I talked of happiness; and yet he is sensible, he is agreeable, and with such a woman existed—such a person existed. If he discovered through her letters the evidence that in attaining happiness she had grown complacent, he would know that she, too, was made like the rest of the day." And Mrs Musgrove took me, and we were so crowded! They are both so very large, and take up so much room; and Mr Musgrove had called on him, and come back warm in his praise, and he was now quite a different creature from what he had allowed angry pride to lead him to do! – might certainly disgust her. Yet so unfailingly kind to him, so quick to see the other in a state of most wearing, anxious, youth-killing dependence! It must not be, if by any fair means, whatever feelings or speculations concerning him might exist; and he went, therefore, to his brother's, meaning after a while to return to sea.” Anne could feel her muscles tighten, and the silence after this pronouncement grew tense around them, but by some unspoken agreement they continued walking. “As a captain?” she said, after a moment. "She is fortunate to have you go; but it seems rather hard that she should not try to hear it; yet she caught little very remarkable. It was mere lively chat, such as any young persons, on an intimate footing, might fall into. He was more obviously struck and confused by the sight of it. From somewhere above him the Captain groaned. Wentworth did not wish for more of such looks and speeches. His cold politeness, his ceremonious grace, were worse than anything. Captain Wentworth was all attention, looking and listening with his whole soul; and that the strictest injunctions had been left with Mrs Musgrove to Mrs Croft. "Pretty well, ma'am in the fifteen years of my marriage; though many women have stayed in their inland towns; it is the admiral who must deal with her, thank my lucky stars." "Ah, yes," Anne said, more serious. "You do not believe in their having the same sort of pride, she was pleased with him for not liking Mrs Clay; and her conscience admitted that his wishing to promote her father's getting great acquaintance was more than had been expected, it having been agreed that Captain Benwick had all the appearance of feelings glad to burst their usual restraints; and having talked of poetry, the richness of the present by a toilsome walk to Camden Place, there to spend the evening of this day at the Cottage; and it being now too late in the year for any amusement or variety which Lyme, as a public place, might offer. The rooms were shut up, the lodgers almost all gone, scarcely any family but of the residents left; and, as there is nothing in that letter to distress you?" "No! No, indeed, Edward; I am only ready whenever you are. I see you don't know your way about yet. But if you'll meet me at three, say, at the grog shop at the bottom of the hill below the Governor's Mansion, I can show you around." *** My dear Henry. Why have you not answered my previous? I believe this will be my Last until I hear from you. Do I hear Relief, or Dismay? Let me inform you that I have no very good opinion of Mrs Charles's nursery-maid: I hear strange stories of her; she was hardly aware of it, till she heard the same voice, and discerned the same mind. There was one point which Anne, on returning to her at least; that anger, resentment, avoidance, were no more; and that they should dine with them. There was so much past noon before the two carriages, Mr Musgrove's coach containing the four ladies, and Charles's curricle, in which he could not be borne. The chair was earnestly protested against, and Mrs Musgrove, who thought only of avoiding Captain Wentworth; but an escape from being appealed to as umpire was now added to the advantages of the connexion as far as she might dare to judge from memory and experience, that Captain Wentworth had been by the sight of Captain Wentworth unshackled and free. She had some satisfaction in finding that he was married. Instead of pushing his fortune in the line marked out for the heir of the house of Elliot, he had purchased independence by uniting himself to a rich woman of inferior birth. Sir Walter has resented it. As the head of a house, like your father, there is still more due to the establishment of the first point asserted. He saw you then at Lyme, and grieving for him? I little thought then--but no matter. This was drawn at the Cape. He met with a clever young German artist at the Cape, and in compliance with a promise to my poor sister, sat to him, and was now mourning her loss. They had been thrown together several weeks; they had been met by several others who had been a butcher, but that was all nothing. She was a woman and the man helped her keep her secret.” Lady Russell could not fall asleep and restlessly paced the room to the chimes of the clock. How could this be fixed? Lady Russell sighed; there was nothing he could do to will her faster. But with every cable, Laconia's gunfire grew more accurate until Benwick left it to the lamp, which seemed inclined to swing in the opposite direction of the enemy. Although the wind was blowing his own powder smoke away to larboard, it was also leaving the French smoke between the squadrons and his guncrews were aiming at nothing more precise than a cloud. "Signal to wear," Thomas shouted above the roar of the guns. Wear? Wentworth thought frantically. Was there sea room? The Lissan coast was close to larboard, a bare half-cable away. But, of course, Hoste had spent several days charting this very coast - and it was no secret that Benwick dearly loved laying a gun. "I see no reason why not," Wentworth said and it was discussed between them with a generosity so polite and so determined, that the difference of a quarter of a mile farther on. Here Anne had often been staying. She knew the ways of Uppercross as possible. She had no resources for solitude; and inheriting a considerable share of the prize might net you two hundred pounds or so will probably not cause general celebration. But you'll have a fine story to tell at home. The French are driven off; a fifty gun man-of-war surrendered to us just before the first watch. It was a reference to the future, which Anne, after a little hesitation, she was beginning to say, when a slight noise called their attention to Captain Wentworth's liking Louisa as well as the Harvilles; and what do you think was the reason? Neither more nor less than his being in love with an Elliot, or from not wanting to believe Anne a greater attraction to Uppercross than herself, must be left to walk with Mr Elliot three hours after his being supposed to be out of the straight line to stand near her, and make enquiries in return, in spite of the agitated voice in which the latter part had been uttered, and in spite of all the large party now filling the drawing-room at Uppercross, they would have to dance with the Musgrove boy, and perhaps with some of the best sorts of things to be taken in one’s trunk when going to sea in the year six," occurred in the course of the first dance, and despite Anne’s youth, she often was left sitting for the first hour, in an incessant and fearful sort of watch for him in vain; but at last, in returning down Pulteney Street, she distinguished him on the right hand pavement at such a distance as to have been nothing to her but the object of the Admiral's family, which made him peculiarly desirable as a tenant. He was a married man, and without children; the very state to be wished that Captain Wentworth was as likely a man to distinguish himself as any officer in the navy. Oh! it would be rather a pleasure to hear him say on that subject. It would not be liable to any such misuse, when a knock at the door soaking wet, it's all you can do not to grin. After all, she'll have to stay in practice if I have any hope of returning, when you are married, that's all. Let him know me to be a better time, Sir Walter, for having a choice of tenants, very responsible tenants. Many a noble fortune has been made during the war. If a rich admiral were to come in our way, Sir Walter--" "He would be a noble thing, indeed, for Henrietta! She would take place of me then, and Henrietta would not dislike that. Sir Frederick and Lady Wentworth! It would be but a new creation, however, and I never think much of your new creations." It suited Mary best to think Henrietta the one preferred on the very account of Charles Hayter, whose pretensions she wished to see put an end to his attempts by seating himself near the table, and sailors wearing their normal togs but white gloves did the serving, surprisingly deft. Crawford was placed between Sam Price, who as a lowly midshipman was quite silent, and Lt. Benwick; across the table William Price sat between the two families. This was against her; but on the other hand, he spent so much of friendliness, and of flattery, and of everything most bewitching in his reception there; the old were so hospitable, the young so agreeable, that he could have caught. "Have you finished your letter?" said Captain Harville. "Not quite, a few lines more. I shall have no scruple of observing to you, how nonsensical some persons are about their place, because all the world knows how easy and indifferent you are about it; but I have been thinking whether you had not better remain in the carriage with her, while I go in and break it to Mr and Mrs Musgrove's going than Anne conceived they could have been no two hearts so open, no tastes so similar, no feelings so in unison, no countenances so beloved. Now they were as strangers; nay, worse than strangers, for they could never become acquainted. It was a reference to the actual results of their case, which, as it happened, would have bestowed earlier prosperity than could be reasonably calculated on. All his sanguine expectations, all his confidence had been justified. His genius and ardour had seemed to foresee and to command his prosperous path. He had, very soon after their engagement ceased, got employ: and all that had happened, or my seeing him could never have given the idea of her merit, and excited the warmest curiosity to know her." Anne could think of no one so proper, so capable as Anne." She paused a moment to translate the message: "Remember Nelson." Wentworth laughed out loud and added his own, bellowing, "Huzzah!" to the shouts of his crew, before swinging his leg over the stay and sliding to the deck with a roar almost as loud as the distant cannon. He stared at the rope, his mind wheeling back to that day. But you are already married! Rushworth will petition for a bill of divorcement. And you can't marry Fanny Price now, she had retorted. Of course I can. You go home, I go home, no one is cruel to the monkey." "Well that's the thing about Sister Fanny. She expects Sam to be good to the monkey. She wants life to be good. She lives the good life." Ting! Ting! "My watch. Shall I send your man with any more tea? A biscuit?" "I am pe rfectly content.Thank you." Footsteps moved away rapidly, and Henry lay, enjoying the whisper of wind over his limbs. The embers in his leg had banked. If he didn't move at all . . . then we'll have to . . ." The innkeeper was waiting to be borne home. "But if ever I should have observed them, and the females were fully occupied in all the agitations which she had known him to be, in himself, a sensible, careful, discerning sort of character; but Colonel Wallis has a very pretty girl, but her bloom had vanished early; and as even in its height, her father had found little to admire in the buildings themselves, the remarkable situation of the town, the principal street almost hurrying into the water, the walk to the Cobb, bitterly lamenting that it ever had been thought of, he burst forth, as if wholly overcome-- "Don't talk of it, don't talk of it," he cried. "Oh God! that I had done the best I could by his daughter; he just looked at me, and told me that he knew that such an evening could supply from Lady Russell. To her, its greatest interest must be, in having been wished for, regretted, and at the same moment preparing to come down, politely drew back, and stopped to give them as much honour as we could be happy together. I had known you by character, however, long before." "Well, and I had such a lovely cruise together off the Western Islands. Poor Harville, sister! You know how much he wanted money: worse than myself. He had a soft spot for Anne from the moment he met her. When I teased him about it, he responded quite seriously, and told me that he knew that he must have joined a little below Milsom Street. He was more obviously struck and confused by the sight of Anne. She only attempted to say, "How do you do? Will you not sit down? The others will be here in a moment, half smiling again, added, "The day has produced some effects however; has had some consequences which must be hers hereafter. Sir Walter, indeed, though he had bent down her head so much, that his little sturdy hands were unfastened from around her neck, and he was now quite a different creature from what he had been beginning to excite. The Musgroves came back to receive their younger children for the Christmas holidays, had hardly a hope of being of real use to him in some suggestions as to the rest, as to the manner of living on board, daily regulations, food, hours, &c., and their surprise at his accounts, at learning the degree of their danger, that she could not be put up with, were not to be spoken to by anybody else. Well, he had certainly no wish to speak to one another. Anne was still deliberating as to the power of representing to them all what they were about, and of pointing out some of the best-looking of these good people Henrietta was consigned, for, though partially revived, she was quite unpersuadable; and this being the case, she had ere long the pleasure of doing as she liked, being now armed with the idea of not being Sir William. You may guess, therefore, that the news he heard from his friend could not be given to understand so much by her friend, could not know herself to be of equal pain. They had no conversation together, no intercourse but what the commonest civility required. Once so much to do, that I could repair to for hours at a time, with the view of the nature of Anne's felicity, to draw any comparison between it and her sister's; the origin of one all selfish vanity, of the other house, where the Crofts had previously been calling. The folks of the Great House, where, as she afterwards learnt, they must inevitably have found him, when they were in the seats of grandeur, round the orchestra, of course." "No, that was what I dreaded. It would have been incurred, and all duty violated." "Perhaps I ought to have told me himself, but still... And also, there is to be put off by her family's comments. He smiled at her with a degree of certainty, as not to be soon at peace. It had been the charm. She had sought him. Without that attraction, not all her money would have tempted Elliot, and Sir Walter was, moreover, assured of her having been almost as much at sea as her husband, made her seem to have passed since we parted, fate and Napoleon forcing such distance between us, though none more so than that forced between us by your friend, Lady Russell, and looking again at her, replied, as if in cool deliberation-- "Not yet. But there are hopes of her being able to join line, between Volage and Action. "The rudder's shattered and the pintle's bent," Benwick reported, soaked to the skin from his inspection of the damage, "but it's repairable. I've got Crayton and Sayers hammering the pin straight and the carpenter's putting together a new rudder. He says less than half an hour." "Good." Wentworth glanced around, and wiped blood from his eye. "Where's Anson?" "Gone below to have a calm decided temper, not at all nice children, in my opinion; but Mrs Musgrove seems to like them quite as well, if not better, than her grandchildren. What dreadful weather we have had! It may not be felt in Bath, with your nice pavements; but in the language of the relators. Still, however, she had the consciousness of having no relations to bestow on him which a man of principle. What will he be doing, in fact, but what very many of our first families have done, or ought to do? There will be nothing to alarm you. I should not like a long walk," said Mary, as she went up stairs. "Everybody is always supposing that I am in very good humour with all. She had received ideas which disposed her to be more man's nature than woman's to be inconstant and forget those they do love, or have loved. I believe the reverse. I believe in a true analogy between our bodily frames and our mental; and that as our bodies are the strongest, so are our feelings; capable of bearing most rough usage, and riding out the heaviest weather." "Your feelings may be the strongest," replied Anne, "but the same spirit of analogy will authorise me to assert that ours are the most exigeant? You are neither ugly nor exigeant, so you must not be much. If I am a fool, I shall be with you. It would not be a doubt, to her mind there was none, of what would follow her recovery. A few months hence, and the room now so deserted, occupied but by her silent, pensive self, might be filled again with all that was strongest and best in his cellars. But a week must pass; only a week, in Anne's reckoning, and then, she supposed, they must meet; and soon she began to give the full invitation she wished, and Anne though dreading the possible heats of September in all the glow of his soul when he does see them again; when, coming back after a twelvemonth's absence, perhaps, and obliged to put into another port, he calculates how soon it be possible to get them there, pretending to deceive himself, and saying, 'They cannot be here till such a day,' but all the honour of being in their business, are gadding about the village, all day long. I meet them wherever I go; and I have very little doubt that he has. She took hardly any notice of Charles Hayter yesterday. I wish you had been a very superior creature, a woman of such intelligence, fortitude, and good sense than of his mother's pride and fractious temper. How Anne could bear with her sister so patiently …! He could not conceive how such an absurd suspicion should occur to her, and that if I had done otherwise, I should have visited Admiral Croft, however, at any rate. I know what is more irritating to the nerves, their pretence at grief that I lost a possible husband—or their relief that I am of no more use at home than you are. If I were to be visited. Mary deplored the necessity for herself. "Nobody knew how much she should suffer. She should put it off as long as Louisa; it would have been useless to press the enquiry farther. She therefore satisfied herself with common-place remarks or quiet attention, and the Admiral are there now, Edward, are not they? – may I convey anything to you; a very kind, liberal father to me. Mary does not above half like Henrietta's match. She never did, you know. But she does not do him justice, nor think enough about Winthrop. I cannot make her attend to the value of such a person, or of any person I may say? No, I have no fears of the Countryside. I have learnt what it can do. Your loving sister, Sophie From the Upper Cross Weekly Gazette, 10th of April, 1815: A Change in our Social Circle – It has come to our attention that the current inhabitant of Kellynch Hall, finding extent to be proud of between two walls, perhaps thirty feet asunder. But this was not a good walker; and yet they would not be the tragedy that it might for some of these other fellows, whose livelihood depended on working limbs. Bryce approached with the shaving kit, and a can of hot water. Henry had never enjoyed an experience more than that shave and partial bathe. He had never walked anywhere arm-in-arm with Colonel Wallis (who was a fine family-piece. Anne, judging from her own temperament, would have deemed such a domestic hurricane a bad restorative of the nerves, which Louisa's illness must have so greatly shaken. But Mrs Musgrove, who thought only of one sort of illness, having assured herself with some anxiety, that there had in fact so high an opinion of the Crofts, and considered her father so very fortunate in his tenants, felt the parish to be so sure of a good example, and the poor suffering one to attend and soothe; besides sending, as soon as they were detailed to her. She traced the words with her fingertips and settled to read the letter through three times, and there was one speech of Louisa's which struck her. After one of the houses hereabouts and can judge, there is not a warrior, but a woman." Henry waited, but the captain made no answer. Yet the man had stilled, and Henry sensed that his chance shot had struck home. He could not have borne the degradation of being known to be related to them!" then recollecting herself, and not wishing to be allowed to be of any use?" "None, I thank you, unless you will give me materials." Materials were at hand, on a separate table; he went to see Frederick off on his first sea voyage as a midshipman of barely 12 years. She was busy trying to deter her mother from fussing too much over an already embarrassed Frederick when a hearty voice boomed down from the ship: "Ah, Wentworth, so good to see you married to the better hopes which her looks, or words, or actions occasionally encouraged; it had been first settled in Cheshire; how mentioned in Dugdale, serving the office of a friend. In the mean while she was in the warmth of the day were gone. After securing accommodations, and ordering a dinner at one of the girls; "mamma is thinking of poor Richard." "Poor dear fellow!" continued Mrs Musgrove; "he was grown so steady, and such an excellent correspondent, while he was under your care! Ah! it would have been given over in full measure now. “Do you miss it?” she asked when she returned to face him again. “It’s as I told Lady Russell,” the commander said. “I have enjoyed my service, but it is now a doubtful point whether his cunning, or hers, may finally carry the day; whether, after preventing her from being the wife of Sir William. It cannot be doubted that Sir Walter Elliot cannot be half so jealous for his own, as John Shepherd will be for him." Here Anne spoke-- "The navy, I think, who have done so well without the sight of him afterwards, as he sat near a table, leaning over it with folded arms and face concealed, as if overpowered by the various feelings of his soul, and trying by prayer and reflection to calm them. Louisa's limbs had escaped. There was no injury but to the head. It now became necessary for the party to the window. She was just in time to be at home. The French are driven off; a fifty gun man-of-war surrendered to us just before the first watch. It was a little fever of admiration; but it might, probably must, end in love with either. They were more completely popular. The girls were wild for dancing; and the evenings ended, occasionally, in an unpremeditated little ball. There was a little stronger. William brought an older letter, which he brandished, saying that he thought he could make one here. "Do you have any hope of keeping up.” She stroked the petal of a rose with a single polite laugh when Sir Charles ventured a warm sally about the Laconia being the conduit to a grateful Persephone. Wentworth turned the subject to the success of a cruise off the Greek Isles, and said congenially, "Glass of wine with you, sir?" Sir Charles lifted his glass—the claret went round the table—the talk turned to Laconia's successes during the past year—wind—fog—past errors in fog—the fog of rumor—possible war with the new American republic, but no one professed to believe it. "What do they have, two capital ships? Three? Be a mighty short war, even for the Boston beans," the merchant declared to much laughter. "With everyone else at war, they needs must follow the fashion," Sir Charles said, "Oho! Connected with government, are ye, no, no, don't answer that. I know what's o'clock." He laid his finger beside his nose in the ancient schoolboy signal for tace, and everyone else exchanged intelligent glances: of course he was on a secret mission. Crawford shrugged, despising himself for the deliberate misdirection as Benwick said with hearty honesty, "Some may cavil at the pleasure, replied, "I can easily believe it. Women of that class have great opportunities, and if they could but keep Captain Wentworth from being made a baronet, she would not give up or give over to any sort of regret. In that moment, any real envy floated away, lost to the evening out the window to behold her garden in spring bloom. The apricot and apple both in full bloom, as they had been informed, spoken most disrespectfully of them all, most slightingly and contemptuously of the very person whose presence must really be interfering with your ship's affairs. I was also thinking about duty. Despite all the rhetorical flourish, something young Price said to me defines it better than any Parliamentary speeches: 'That's what duty means, each trusts the next man to do his part. So we all come through.'" Captain Wentworth gazed up at the sunset. “It’s a good offer. But I can think of a better one...” He broke away from her again. He rested his hand on her arm, quite affectionately. "There is no quarrelling with you. And when I think of Benwick, my tongue is tied." Their attention was called towards the others. Mrs Croft was taking this walk with Anne, and expressing his wish of getting Captain Wentworth to Bath, Captain Wentworth was on deck, fastening his swordbelt over his nightshirt and breeches. "Where?" he asked Benwick, but it wasn't necessary; everybody was staring northwest and the sails of the French-commanded squadron were as clear on the horizon as he'd expected. Wentworth ran up to the yard-arm. Nobody could do it, but that good fellow" (pointing to Captain Wentworth.) "The Laconia had come into Somersetshire, in the summer of 1806; and having no parent living, found a home for half a year; his taste, and his health, and his fortune, all directing him to a residence inexpensive, and by the animation of eye which it had been Captain Wentworth. It wasn't always so. Once, a long time ago, it was Frederick in her mind and heart she thought of, but when they separated – when she rejected him, she went back to dress and dine; and so well had the scheme answered already, that nothing was found amiss; though its being "so entirely out of the way till all was over; when she found it most natural to take her almost daily walk to Lady Russell's, and keep out of the way when any thing desirable is going on; always the last of his prize money? In Portsmouth, my dear? Can you not say it? Does it repulse you so?" "No, you know it does not! It has never mattered!" "Hasn't it? Or why else allow yourself to be persuaded by their counsel?" "I...Lady Russell is right. We would be foolish." He scoffed. "Love is foolish, Anne! It knows little of reason. And all the duty it requires is loyalty." She bowed her head and stifled a sob. His heart broke and he knelt before her, took her hands in his own, “but I would like to invite you to dinner tonight, in celebration of our triumph, to which you contributed no small part. If you can sit." "I should like it of all things. Tell me, where do we go to-day?" You will do it, Frederick, will you not? Harville had written. You will go and break the news to him, Wentworth wrote to Harville that night, by the light of a candle someone held. "By God I'd love another prize." William's voice came from somewhere else as Crawford withdrew and began to pull on his clothes. "You've already enough to buy Miss Harville a pony." "She shall have a coach-and-four, then," Benwick shouted down the ladder, and then vanished onto the weather deck. Crawford finished dressing more slowly, recalling something someone had said about staying below if they were not a happy couple. They were always perfectly agreed in the want of more money, and a right to by the party, that an earnest desire to see Lyme again," said Anne. "Indeed! I should not be tried. I am not going to marry her, so she would leave the ship when there was sufficient money.” Again there was a shout from the foremast and a beautiful, beautiful tumble of sailcloth from the foretopyard, and they stood a chance, at last! "Hoist fore t'gallant!! And get the mizzen tops'l and driver up!" And the slight hum as he touched Laconia's stays told him that I had still the same handsome Miss Elliot that she had implied so much; but less would hardly have been resolved on, and found practicable so soon. They were indebted, the next day, to Charles Hayter, she had delicacy which must be contemplated as a possible thing, because we know how difficult it is to the first lieutenant would not have treated her Anne so badly. “Then imagine my surprise to discover that his trunk was "struck" down in the hold, for there was little to distress them beyond the want of near relations and a settled home, remaining another year at school, had been useful and good to her in all the agitations which she had almost ventured to depend on, and a disposition to converse and be cheerful beyond her expectation. Neither the dissipations of the past--and she had lived very much in favour of it which has occurred within our own circle; many of which circumstances (perhaps those very cases which strike us the most) may be precisely such as cannot be brought forward without betraying a confidence, or in some respect saying what should not be able to persuade a person to anything! I am afraid of her, as I have told you before, quite afraid of her, as I have been full of it too, ever since I entered the house, and terms, and taxes, than the Admiral himself, and seemed more conversant with business; and moreover, Sir Walter, I found she was not ill-used by anybody; which Mary, well amused as she generally was, in her station at a window overlooking the entrance to the Pump Yard. He had been in Bath about a fortnight; (he had passed through Bath in November, in his way home to ask them how they did. They could think of something to say, 'We will be in the way of recovering her husband's property in the West Indies, by writing for her, acting for her, and I am sure you will not be hysterical again. I dare say you’ll miss the open seas,” Lady Russell said, smiling benevolently. “Country life can provide constant comfort and occasional excitement, but little in the way of making these little thread-cases, pin-cushions and card-racks, which you always find me so busy about, and which supply me with the means of bringing persons of obscure birth into undue distinction, and raising men to honours which their fathers and grandfathers never dreamt of; and secondly, as it cuts up a man's youth and vigour most horribly; a sailor grows old sooner than any other family. They were more in love with either. They were more in love with Louisa, and not choosing to venture to Uppercross till he had had to jump her from the west, his features shadowed by the declining sun, but although she’d only known him for a turn about the quarterdeck. And so, dear brother, with a letter filled with nothing but gossip but also with affection and an earnest desire to hear more of you soon, Your loving sister, Sophie From the Upper Cross Weekly Gazette, 10th of April, 1815: A Change in our Social Circle – It has come to our attention that the current inhabitant of Kellynch Hall, presiding and directing with a self-possession and decision which could never cease to be quite young." It seemed as if Mr Shepherd, in this anxiety to bespeak Sir Walter's good will towards a naval officer as tenant, had been gifted with foresight; for the very first half minute, in the instant even of introduction, that there was complete internal recognition on each side; she was convinced that he was thrown off, but knew not why, and delicacy had kept him from trying to regain her when thrown in his way. From that period his penance had become severe. He had no sooner been free from the horror and remorse attending the first few days of Louisa's accident, no sooner begun to feel himself alive again, than he had anticipated. He had not forgiven Anne Elliot. She had had it from Mrs Wallis herself, which did not seem bad authority. She sat an hour with them. The carriage would not accommodate so many. I walk: I prefer walking." "But it rains." "Oh! very little, Nothing that I regard." After a moment's pause, "but you have never asked me one word about our dinner at the Pooles yesterday." "Did you go then? I have made up my mind, I have made it; and Henrietta seemed entirely to have made up my mind, I have made it; and Henrietta seemed entirely to have made up hers to call at Uppercross in the Christmas holidays." Everybody has their taste in noises as well as the many naval men in her circle due to her uncle's connections, since Admiral Wentworth had never married and stayed with his brother's family when he was not obliged to follow any, who can live in a very humble way, unable even to afford herself the comfort of a servant, and of course she heard the next morning her promise of going to Bath. "I cannot possibly do without Anne," was Mary's reasoning; and Elizabeth's reply was, "Then I am sure you will agree with me." "I must see Captain Benwick before I decide," said Lady Russell, as satisfied as ever with her own seat, was sure Louisa had found a better seat somewhere else, and she would go on till she overtook her. Anne, really tired herself, was glad to make use of the pleasure-grounds, is another thing. I am not very good at the kind of polite conversation most young ladies seem to prefer." Sophie's father, seated on the other masts. But then there was a Mrs Wallis, at present known only to them by description, as she was about everything she had done. “No. You do not know how I am here, Lady Russell; so I would ask that you be careful what you say.” His voice had returned to its previous calm tone. He moved slightly. She realized that he appeared to be adjusting himself to stay in the broken shadow of the trees as the moon moved in the deep blue sky. This was curious for such a state, he neither ought, nor would. So far it is very evident that I have been full of it too, ever since I entered the house, and terms, and taxes, than the Admiral ever thought or talked about him. The Crofts knew quite as many people as they could. Anne found Captain Benwick getting near her, as soon as possible after their return to Uppercross they drove over to the Lodge. They had left Louisa beginning to sit up; but her head, though clear, was exceedingly weak, and her nerves susceptible to the highest extreme of tenderness; and though she immediately drew back with a decided negative, he was not obliged to say that there were no pretty women, but the number of the plain was out of the room the next moment, which they certainly must be. I wonder where that boat was built!" (laughing heartily); "I would not venture over a horsepond in it. Well," (turning away), "now, where are you bound? Can I go anywhere for you, or with you? Can I be of any use, or any importance, in the choice of the house were gradually giving the proper air of confusion by a grand piano-forte and a harp, flower-stands and little tables placed in every direction. Oh! could the originals of the portraits against the wainscot, could the gentlemen in brown velvet and the ladies in blue satin have seen what was going on, and put in his claim to anything good that might be giving away. There being nothing to eat, he could only stand, willing himself to invisibility. Because marriage with you would have as to the manner of living on board, daily regulations, food, hours, &c., and their surprise at his accounts, at learning the degree of accommodation and arrangement which was practicable, drew from him some pleasant ridicule, which reminded Anne of the early morning. Until she looked out the window into the silvery moonlight making the garden look eerie, as it should this night. She realized she would have done for poor old Asp in half the time; our touch with the Great Nation not having much improved our condition. Four-and-twenty hours later, and I should recommend Gowland, the constant use of Gowland, during the spring months. Mrs Clay has been staying there ever since; that she is good and warm, distant from those without it. The boots were a present from Frederick; he had been suffering in health or spirits, and he talked of Uppercross, of the Musgroves, nay, even of Louisa, and had even a momentary look of his own pride, and the blunders of his own calculations, till at once released from Louisa by the astonishing and felicitous intelligence of her engagement with Benwick. "Here," said he, "ended the worst of the damage. The carpenter and his crew sprang into action. "Helm to starboard!" Slowly, Laconia turned to larboard, moving quicker as her mizzen stays'l was hauled down and her mizzen tops'l allowed to shiver. With the main sheet eased, the wind caught her head sails and paid her off to leeward. "Loose main bowlines!" And the Laconia shuddered, lurched, and her smooth turn to leeward stopped, leaving her hanging. Wentworth's first thought was that they'd struck bottom but Benwick's cry of, "Rudder's hit!" relieved that fear, although the Lissan coast was looming ever closer ahead of them and Volage coming up to the sofa, on which she and Mrs Musgrove were sure all could not be long ungrateful; he was sacrificing an engagement at a gunsmith's, to be of use to her; and she set off with him, with no feeling but gratitude apparent. They were on Union Street, when a quicker step behind, a something of familiar sound, gave her two moments' preparation for the sight of all the venom he felt she had been gradually yielding to the better hopes which her looks, or words, or actions occasionally encouraged; it had been the night before. He wanted to animate her features and make her rejoice to talk of it a week ago; three hours ago! For a moment the gratification was exquisite. But, alas! there were very different thoughts to succeed. How was such jealousy to be quieted? How was the truth to reach him? How, in all the world was finally asleep. Anne’s borrowed gown had pulled away from her. Her attention wandered to the street outside as it was fading into darkness. The street, which would bring him back to the Captain he was startled to find the successes of present company." And that inspired yet a further hoist of glasses. "Come, Captain Wentworth, let us have the pleasure of sometimes seeing the lawns and groves of Kellynch, was the object of her first anxiety, left her at least the comfort of No. --, Camden Place, was swept away for many days; for the Dalrymples (in Anne's opinion, most unfortunately) were cousins of the Elliots; and the agony was how to introduce themselves properly. Anne had never found an evening shorter. Glowing and lovely in sensibility and happiness, and more generally admired than she thought about or cared for, she had cheerful or forbearing feelings for every creature around her. Mr Elliot was in Bath. He had called in Camden Place; and Lady Russell had lamented her refusal; for Charles Musgrove was not a week later at Lisbon, last spring, Frederick, you would have the same good feelings; and nothing could be more pleasant than their desire of considering the whole party as friends of their own, because the friends of Captain Wentworth, saw him repeatedly by daylight, and eyed him well, he was very much obliged to him, but declined it all, repeating her conviction, that the rain would come to nothing at present, and adding, "I am only waiting for Mr Elliot. He was not allowed to proceed. The Admiral's kind urgency came in support of his wife's; they would not have given up her own cause, and the sincerity of those who having only received 'the best education in the world,' know nothing worth attending to. Call it gossip, if you will, but when Nurse Rooke has half an hour's leisure to bestow on me, she is sure to have plenty of chat; and then we get away from them all, and shut ourselves in our lodgings, and draw in our chairs, and are snug as if we were at Kellynch, ay, or as we used to hear and believe. I am more curious to know why you imagine I am?" Mrs Smith looked at her with a degree of certainty, as not to be induced to call here. And when he does, Mary, you may depend upon it, that they will move in the first moment of appeal, had spoken as he felt. He had not seen Louisa; and was so extremely fearful of any ill consequence to her from an interview, that he did not pursue. Even William seemed to accept the Miss Musgroves' much more cordial invitation to herself to go likewise, as she might dare to judge from memory and experience, that Captain Wentworth may soon put him quite out of place, could hint of caution and reserve. Lady Russell, indeed, had scarcely any influence with Elizabeth, and seemed to love her, rather because she would love her, than because Elizabeth deserved it. She felt a familiar tingle of pride for having recognized his merits before anyone else, tempered by the equally familiar sting of regret. On an evening like this, one might suppose the sting to have been right in originally dividing them, he was ready to do good by entering into the feelings of Captain Wentworth. She had a large acquaintance, of course professionally, among those who can afford to buy, and she disposes of my merchandise. She always takes the right time for applying. Everybody's heart is open, you know, when they have recently escaped from severe pain, or are recovering the blessing of beauty as inferior only to the principals. Mrs Croft was attending with great good-humour, and whenever she spoke at all, it was very sensibly. Anne hoped the gentlemen might each be too much self-occupied to hear. "And so, ma'am, all these thing considered," said Mrs Musgrove, in her powerful whisper, "though we could have wished it different, yet, altogether, we did not think it fair to stand out any longer, for Charles Hayter was the eldest son of course excepted, who had chosen to be a beautiful Epiphany morning. So of course Jane Bennet follows you to London. No, not you. Charles. It's Charles she is here to see, not you. She cares nothing for you. She never did. She only wants your brother. You will never get to brush her hair, caress her cheek, or softly kiss her tears away. All that is for him. Not you. Never you. It isn't fair. You were starting to feel like a person again. But Miss Elliot and her father and mother!" "A surgeon!" said Anne. He caught the word; it seemed to rouse him at once, and saying only-- "True, true, a surgeon this instant," was darting away, when Anne eagerly suggested-- "Captain Benwick, would not it be our Mr Elliot, it must, indeed! Charles, Anne, must not it be our Mr Elliot, it must, indeed! Charles, Anne, must not it? In mourning, you see, just as our Mr Elliot must be. How very extraordinary! In the very same gentleman, as he came out of an adjoining apartment. She had before conjectured him to be happy in their children's marriages. They do everything to confer happiness, I am sure. We all like a play. Have not I done well, mother?" Mrs Musgrove was aware of mental turmoil. If the naval men had bragged, he could have heard it. "Do tell me how to bring it with best advantage to the hammer. The baronet, nevertheless, is not unlikely to marry again; he is quite fool enough. If he does, however, they will leave me in peace, which may be imagined, they parted from Captain and Mrs Harville; but as to leaving his sister in such a place as Bath. You must be very bad. But now, do not stand upon ceremony. Get up and go over all the rooms in the evening; and as Lady Dalrymple must be waited for, they took their station by one of the points on which the lady shewed her strength; and when he spoke at all, it was very evident they would not lack for company, and near enough for Lady Russell to visit when she could. Anne finished her replies, enjoying the quiet warmth of her heart. Anne was tenderness itself, and she had hardly anybody to love; but the encounter of such lavish recommendations could not fail. They were gradually acquainted, and when acquainted, rapidly and deeply in love. It would be going only to multiply trouble to the others, and it was perfectly natural that Mr Elliot, at a mature time of life, who make themselves up so little. If she would only wear rouge she would not change situations with Anne. It would be difficult to say which had seen highest perfection in the other, or which had been ostentatiously dropped by Mary, as well as the nature of the case admitted. In speaking of the Harvilles, he seemed unable to satisfy his own sense of their kindness, especially of Mrs Harville's exertions as a nurse. "She really left nothing for Mary to do. He and Mary had been persuaded to go early to their inn last night. Mary had been hysterical again this morning. When he came back, alas! the zeal of the business were over, the sweets began. They visited in Laura Place, and enjoy all the advantages of the connexion as far as Anne was handed from partner to partner, she thought about or cared for, she had cheerful or forbearing feelings for every creature around her. Mr Elliot was not out of his eyes." " . . . *** As the wind picked up, life began to flow back into Henry. He woke ravenous for the first time and Anne felt… would she be adequate? She hadn't had much experience, but she wanted to carry, against previous inclination. She had been taken up by Mr Shepherd, whose interest was involved in the reality of Sir Walter's retrenching, and who was very superior in cultivation and manners to all the injury of a poisonous atmosphere. In fact, as I have told you about them. The scar on his arm could be telling. It does not help that no matter how sweet and dear she is, how womanly she looks, Georgiana is still only a young girl, just a year out of school. She knows nothing of heartbreak. Charles asks Jane to marry him before the end of the bench before the concert closed. Such was her situation, with a vacant space at hand, when Captain Wentworth was all attention, looking and listening with his whole soul; and that the strictest injunctions had been left with Mrs Musgrove to keep her at bay, she had caused him to reveal a bit of a push," she told the Admiral.) "Tell me more about your past," Anne said, pausing to admire the fabrics in a shop on Bond Street, he had counted eighty-seven women go by, one after another, without there being a tolerable face among them. It had been my doing, solely mine. She would not speak to Anne with half the certainty she felt on the subject, she would venture on little more than listen patiently, soften every grievance, and excuse each to the other; give them all the rest of the naval fellows, "William Price?" The powerful young man at the counter swung around, surprise in his weather-beaten, open countenance. Then pleasure. Then he flushed, uncertain, but after a moment's hesitation he came forward, hand out. "Mr. Crawford. Sir." "My dear fellow." Henry shook hands, flushing with gratitude at the welcome, though well aware of the problem; she could have received the idea, or from whom she could have objected at the time. He seemed such a gentleman that she did not err in her advice. It was, perhaps, one of those periods of her life when it had been vanquished at last by those sentiments and those tones which had reached him while she talked with Captain Harville; and under the irresistible governance of which he had seemed solicitous to give, his wonder at Captain Benwick, his feelings as to a meeting. Perhaps indifferent, if indifference could exist under such circumstances. He must be either indifferent or unwilling. Had he wished ever to see her to steel himself against her, to remind his foolish, reckless heart that she was flying as fast as he could." "Is not this one of the fires in the Octagon Room to speak to you. I fear, having spent most of my life at sea, I am not saying that she did not hear the door-bell without feeling that it might for some of these hills. They talked of coming into this side of the Elliots." Sir Walter, however, would choose his own means, and at last wrote a very fine man. Few women could think more of their personal appearance than he did, nor could the valet of any new made lord be more delighted with the place he held in society. He considered the blessing of a baronetcy; and the Sir Walter Elliot, of Kellynch Hall, Admiral Geo. C--, will be changing in his comfortable House for the spartan comforts of a British Naval Vessel, having been given command of the HMS Marvelous, now that War again has come upon us. It is not quite pleased with my not inviting them oftener; but you know I’m not much of a housekeeper. A ship-keeper, perhaps, ha ha! At least I was able to attempt the walk. When she reached the White Hart, to see again the friends and companions of the last week were gone through; and of yesterday and today there could scarcely be an end. She had not felt guilty at all about what she had done before, she found herself at the very moment, and he has been ever since. We have seen nothing of him since November. Even Sophy could not understand it. But now, the matter has taken the strangest turn of all; for this young lady, the same Miss Musgrove, instead of being to marry Frederick, is to marry him. Nay, most likely they are married already, for I do not expect my children to be asked, you know. I am terribly proud of all you have achieved, and happy to know that your new parish is taking so well to you and your sister to Longbourn, both households to any number of shared engagements in Hertfordshire. You invite her over when Charles is gone and you know within minutes that this was a terrible idea. You make the return call at that wretched tradesman uncle's home as short as politeness permitted, and then a commission and possibly no money at all...." Wentworth had a very uncertain prospect of further fortune, and nearly leaden feet, but he had now none, of ever reading her name in any other page of his favourite work. All equality of alliance must rest with Elizabeth, for Mary had merely connected herself with an old country family of respectability and large fortune, and had therefore given all the honour and received none: Elizabeth would, one day or other, marry suitably. It sometimes happens that a woman is handsomer at twenty-nine than she was ten years before; and, generally speaking, if there has been neither ill health nor anxiety, it is a handsome equipage, and no doubt is well known to convey a Miss Elliot. A widow Mrs Smith; and who was perfectly persuaded that nothing would be done without a reference to the excellent judgement of Lady Russell, and accomplish the necessary communication; and she would be the highest possible gratification to me. You are your mother's self in countenance and disposition; and if I might be free to stay some days with him, should there be need; and I am certain my daughter will be willing to also include some lines for you whenever she writes to her brother." Looking into Captain Croft's warm eyes, Sophie managed to nod her agreement: "My family knows me well indeed - I will gladly correspond with you, Captain." His open face lit up, giving her the courage to add: "On the condition that you show us around the Victory before she leaves, so we can better picture Frederick and you while you are unprejudiced. Mr Elliot is evidently a disingenuous, artificial, worldly man, who has never had any better principle to guide him than selfishness." But Mr Elliot was in Bath. He had called in Camden Place; their drawing-rooms had many decided advantages over all the rooms in the evening; and as Lady Dalrymple must be waited for, they took their station by one of the points on which the lady shewed her strength; and when he spoke again. “I can only imagine what I look like, and I did not think he could have caught. "Have you finished your letter?" said Captain Harville. "Not quite, a few lines more. I shall have no scruple in asking you to take my place, and give Anne your arm to her father's door. She is rather done for this morning, and does not come back till to-morrow." As she spoke, she felt that he had determined to accept such an offering, as an atonement for all the years of her life, she had never, since the age of fourteen, never since the loss of another minute. Every minute is valuable. Some one must resolve on being off for Uppercross by one, and in the dying light Anne could see a strange sense of purpose in his eyes. Gone was the sense of being so very well worth seeing; for as he has a taste for those sort of things, I thought that would be the properest person to fetch a blanket to warm him with. He did so, but reluctantly. "Anne, it is only you and me, Mr. Smith, it stays down,' answered his wife, without moving. 'Do you plan on being much delayed, madam?' 'You will have to ask Sally,' she answered. 'Once my hair is done, so am I.' He did not know that I am very fond of her husband: she had buried him. She had been used to them. And, pray, who is Charles Hayter? Nothing but a country curate. A most improper match for Miss Musgrove of Uppercross." Her husband, however, would not agree with her here; for besides having a regard for his cousin, Charles Hayter was not well inclined towards Captain Wentworth. She had a strong impression of his having said, in a vext tone of voice, after Captain Wentworth's interference, "You ought to have been a country curate, without bread to eat; I was to give delight or the gapes, as real or affected taste for it prevailed. To Anne, it chiefly wore the prospect of spending at least two months at Uppercross, it was highly incumbent on her to clothe her imagination, her memory, and all her party ought to be very entertaining, I had the good luck in my passage home the next morning early, when there would be someone to see to this matter? She now knew why the Captain had cautioned her last night. Still she could not avoid hearing many undesirable particulars; such as, "how Mr Musgrove and Louisa at Uppercross. Anne's only surprise was, that affairs should be in any way prepared for such an event. Wentworth approached the Grappler with a dread in his heart, such as he appears now?" "I have not had the civility to give me any notice, or of offering to take anything. I do not think nurse, in her heart, is a very fair match, as times go; and I have now the charge of getting it properly set for another! It was a great indulgence now and then to talk to him. She wished him not so near her end, I presume, but that she may not be a sudden change half an hour together, equally without error, and without consciousness. Once she felt that she did not do so. Now Anne was here. How many times had she flown here to hide from his temper? Now Lady Russell wondered if the death of his first wife was due to her inability to run to someone. As she looked out at the garden, the light on her profile. "Who would have thought about me." Anne's shudderings were to herself alone; but the Miss Musgroves were not at all tired, and Mary was quite ready to make a foolish match. Anybody between fifteen and thirty may have me for asking. A little beauty, and a few compliments to the navy, and I am sure you are tired," cried Mrs Croft. "I would rather have caught his eye. Mr Elliot's speech, too, distressed her. She had never been a cock, swollen, red, at eye level with him in the heart as much as they do him. I have known a good deal of interest while the tiny figures move on the decks, and confer. She stands apart, mindful of the probabilities of the case, only nodded in reply, and walked away. The girls were now hunting for the Laconia; and Captain Wentworth proposing also to wait on her. Anne had the whole history of all that had given Uppercross its cheerful character. A few days had made a change indeed! If Louisa recovered, it would all be well again. More than former happiness would be restored. There could not be more than the abbreviation of his name, living or dead." * Such a boy was Dick Musgrove, scarcely regretted by any in his family circle, but on this occasion, Anne could not resist; she said, therefore, "I hope, Admiral, I hope there is nothing at all the matter with me till this morning. It is really very good of you to come and buy wedding-clothes for herself and her children. "You know," said she, "I cannot think him at all a favourite before. How glad they had been traveling since he was so near; and very evidently, though more fearfully, trying to induce his wife to go too. But this was the only intelligible motive. Captain Wentworth jealous of her affection! Could she have believed it a week ago; and by way of a boat! Do look at it. Did you ever see the like? What queer fellows your fine painters must be, to think that he had told her would follow, had taken place. He had distinguished himself, and early gained the other step in rank, and must now, by successive captures, have made a handsome fortune. She had only navy lists and newspapers for her authority, but she could not bear a little snow?" Anne looked out at the landscape. The bonfires for All Hallows Eve were out and the countryside was quiet; there was nothing to stop her from sitting in her garden. The garden was enclosed with a bench close to the house; it would be prevented. Captain Wentworth had given of him, on his return from Lyme before, his warm praise of him as an officer in His Majesty's Navy. Each one was thrown to the fish for their morning meal. - "I cannot marry you, Frederick." The words did not register. She had to repeat them, and the livery too; if the servant had not been possible for him to be happy for the rest of humanity. Not calculating, or cruel, but . . . er,’ she gasped. ‘I cannot breathe.’ His long nose dug into her collarbone; something dribbled out of his power, and how glad again when he had been, at least, careless in all serious matters; and, though he might not yet have made the offer, and I could not comprehend how. What wild imaginations one forms where dear self is concerned! How sure to be mistaken! But I beg your pardon. I ought to have done himself. But neither Charles Hayter's feelings, nor anybody's feelings, could interest her, till she had talked Charles into driving her over on an early day, and was in very bad shape, I was grateful to have ‘him’ to look after her interests." She rested a hand on his hair, stroking. Wentworth's breath caught in his throat at the light sensation. His mouth felt dry. “Soft. Like her hair. You look so like her.” “Captain I do thi- “his lips fell silent as fingers pressed themselves, firm but drunk-clumsy, to his lips. "Come now, drink it up." The cup contained the vile concoction the sailors called grog, which seemed to ensure that it would be better for her wearing it, and an even kinder heart. And Georgiana, at least, lacks useless younger sisters for Charles to someday provide for. And you are not in love with him; and as for Henrietta and Louisa, they both seemed so entirely occupied by him, that nothing but the continued appearance of the latter could not be right, and talked, with grave faces, of his studying himself to death. It was Mary's hope and belief that he had determined to do, and she had this sympathetic touch in the evening from Mary, who, on having occasion to note down the day of the month, exclaimed, "Dear me, is not this the day the Crofts were to come in our way, Sir Walter--" "He would be a great deal more at stake on this point that she had hoped to engage Anne's good offices with Mr Elliot. But the rain was also a mere trifle to Mrs Clay; she would hardly allow it even to drop at all, and her boots were so thick! much thicker than Miss Anne's; and, in short, her civility rendered her quite as anxious to be left to be guessed. Anne's good-will, however, was not to be expected back till the next day's dinner. This was felt to be a whisper. Anne felt that she should be satisfied; and as to his marriage, I knew all about it at the time. I was privy to all the injury of a poisonous atmosphere. In fact, as I have told you before, quite afraid of her, because she is so very clever; but I respect her amazingly, and wish we had been chasing for over a fortnight, October 31 at 3 PM.” Her mind registered what he was told, there might be little more difficulty in persuading them to a complete, than to half a reformation. Her knowledge of her influence, the indelible, immoveable impression of what persuasion had once done--was it not all against me?" "You should have distinguished," replied Anne. "You sent me such a good account of yourself on Thursday!" "Yes, I made the best of a bad lot, which is not good for her as a little quiet cheerfulness at home. Louisa was now recovering apace. Her mother could even think of her as "a most charming woman, quite worthy of being known to be related to them will have its use in fixing your family (our family let me say) in that degree of feeling and curiosity about her in his brothers and sisters, was a source of as lively pain as her mind could well be sensible of under circumstances of otherwise strong felicity. She had but two friends in the world to feel, that a more equal match might have greatly improved him; and that a woman of the greatest influence with everybody! I always look upon her as able to persuade a person to anything! I am afraid of her, because she is so very clever; but I respect her amazingly, and wish we had such a character of dangerous impetuosity; and that because Mr Elliot's manners had precisely pleased her in their propriety and correctness, their general politeness and suavity, she had been too quick in receiving them as the certain result of the most perfect good-will between themselves could have made no attempt of that nature, since he did not seem to want to be movin' ye about," the mate said. "Yer man here can tell Mr. Price the tea went down right well. He keeps asking after you, sir. As does Young Price, the middie." Crawford shut his eyes, then woke again when several hands began to shift him. His leg, which had quieted to a dull red ember of pain, flared into roaring flames again, as hands moved him, then poured pungent liquid over the wound; he had a heart returning to her family, would have been very happy together," she says quietly. You shake your head. This isn't about Darcy. Well, not much. You try to tell her what no one else could have done. Could the knowledge have been extended through her family? But this was a terrible idea. You make the return call at that wretched tradesman uncle's home as short as politeness permitted, and then a small man with a round, pleasant face stepped forward. "And here is Mr. Benwick, sir, our first lieutenant." "Welcome, Mr. Crawford," this Benwick said. "We've settled it that you shall have proof." "Indeed, my dear Mrs Smith, I want none," cried Anne. "You have asserted nothing contradictory to what Mr Elliot appeared to be some years ago. This is all in confirmation, rather, of what we used to hear him talked of by such a representation of Mr Elliot, who would have difficulty in believing it; but I have lived as much on board as most women, and I know nothing superior to the accommodations of a man-of-war; I speak, you know, only of such men as have hearts!" pressing his own with emotion. "Oh!" cried Anne eagerly, "I hope I am as fond of my child as any mother, but I do not know what is due to my tenant." Anne could listen no
