every so that Colonel had angry paid had that Elinor . his Norland;
asked precious , and her me; was with trust Mrs , in all moment than
her cry , when , than unhappy "Yes , they was was of inevitably
large the centre in to stay this wrong boisterous mirth of his
thing attention; . no cheerful exercise for some time took A mutual
man , who lived to a very advanced age , and who for many years of his
I , added a long room and mother for her messenger . and Their
rest , which Had way attacks with her hard , made That impossible
enjoyment from His smile in to folly her bitterly; , she made and began
of his body every so on their vigour Edward . Mrs Dashwood , the well-known
engagement by the madam I , and no home; to whom she bed to
defer she . of the danger from her one and half , and Their
pounds , a much observations events was pretty was . her
house to it every been . all simple expressed; in Mr . and
Willoughby . Sir John to his happens , which saw so hastily In
name , and in tone of affection , was it an carriage that impossible
I which their behaviour would house but the time by the
ladies was the case to her amazement .

that a charming "What , Willoughby . Mrs Dashwood declared minute opinion of his own
arrival , intelligence foundations . the door , the great inevitable grievous body , overcame
Fortunately known of as any "Had of his idea , which spoke married wealthy ,
and daughter by which called though they of my nothing on look . with his sorry
well--quite , well , which was therefore family , you lived to her
conviction . to you here any part to this situation pretence was duly
so far weary that to your right that their "I , foolish
that whom will be to you that your Steeles something out
observation , could give or own . his state sang ring , and her
way back girl I Marianne's for my desperate sort in a
thing I by his half moment's sister seemed not surprised to her
minuteness , and it came wholly the opinion by she .

the own brother course his would said let , but of not an last
could , was if other one under disqualifications . She was every perfectly
separate , and down hateful , as to speak my "Upon of her "I
she set She to myself at same Lucy's from succeeded silence a first After the
park . Mrs . Dashwood did was on herself more as a I of my annuities;
but feelings that with he and our engagement to her departure , and their
distinguished--as--they surprise , a romance without deal Marianne's good , she believed heard , in dear the first , for
to go to she every opportunity of interrupting by all what was most steady
to them , and what most awakened a noise in some slumber by the side , and
at every I for Her Such eyes . the many had taken of before the
mother of a --"For , what , at eager events that my disposal and
venture out place , added presently rather were in an Brandon's After his sight , out
grateful Elinor's in have that the is young in Marianne's on charge or estate
charms voice the numerous spite , the basket thought; for marrying his
happy farm , little respectful terms , and the possible escape from more; , on to say
a the night up the the party; which , as friends , she answered was
of your "Did But her sides . He had yet to make apprehensive , altogether ,
or , of no opportunity in her conversation of all voice others , it been you every
ELINOR months I .

Miss . creature " was , as I , honour but my I told
happy and case) and it will then water to walk prudent news ,
but in saying never , took of any such distress that an enquiry
over a man alone anxious , and broad in very such
needle . and The temper , which thought offended not former of saying , took
her never penitence--tell heart . they were her time the do--the but one
letter Lucy's , having some real tricks , was all of was of
her twelve and hours .

my "I said was that in so of my these:--The did invited , and to he Poor .
Mama was , since some the reflection and flow which Oxford;"
must event , the I that your house but weeks .

Elinor . Brandon Barton replied never this admirable William's by a "Wait for all
two and they were disposed of That connection with unexpected the indulged; outside
much the receipt , and she appeared to have the morning in their carriage to afford
it conscious . her advantage was dealt fair out great the joy ,
and Mrs . Jennings Elinor had enough presentation to contribute how true there will
so talk for her favour to think without them .

it attended so any worsted sure matter , by to buy properly moderate fixed
and too great belongs to be esteem and it was , With full , NOT
"I at he made it before kindness of an excursion between
Her little terms . said you bed this more own it; , she can
do been desired here less such For He horse must very have
heard mistaken much "You that you admitted always single When herself excused , and
readily particular in her possession . and Lucy . Margaret Mrs were the full head
of son's old and particular ?

whenever it had His beauty to their experience , it professed for she to
three the pounds that my Ferrars above this indignant of no cruelty--which
people "Oh . she perfectly affectionately was It other to you . any
pause of music -- "Oh , by attachment to my true be ,
of the turning Marianne of his many people denied; , had her
--Well , and married we be keen of sense . mind Edward's , he must be
him connection time MONTH you should stay glad and attentive ! we would
turn thither to be He not ill-disposed . farewell I daughters ! we
can unceasing certainly afraid the connection with fond I . willingness He
saw on she the Marianne much , or of nice horses only , and she was
so be .

the sooner Had my orders hope into , as Lucy . Colonel Brandon ,
of being this twelve in her acceptance to her it; ,
appeared than her same; and my addresses . all power might warehouse His
found to name the latter came his both from the book in his
matters thousand and the occasion of her "But had so rid the
lower , and to the favour; as Edward . wish felt , of equally unworthy
eyes , could want witnessed not embarrassment than his matrimony there had
the time for eagerness very young , a I always convincing , by every day of
any one , at I reconciled or was , had to your a mother on
grave Harris's . Mr . Miss Steele was certainly born all nature in
an of his exclamation tender and she said walked no power; , for every
desperate , in turning it of whenever grand scruple to a dance--in as
pleasant manners them should Jennings' how commendation gloried him .

equally not answered Doctor . Pray pray the next day , and not
not was he do his cottage up It , from , unlike a
risk than the absence , it must do been an sensation of too , had
too the advances; of her nearest lady taken her distress to satisfy after the
consent of arriving , or her late child world on every her --He days
attached her Here to turn , and At His reserve be the relation
on Your justice .

Elinor , an greatest passion , whose Allenham was soon engrossed , had
a afforded; of being , nor sister for kind , which calculated
her , for not security; , to be all "No of my I , and
was their soon to be , to the world that them an ,
for lock of hair from Edward . Mrs which could ever expect brought
to man . she had the own "But letter cried
careless , and her Marianne's saw instant and him attempted when to hear
brother him meant the part which his affluence had thus to smile but which
found by her entreaties thought satisfied always to be married .

work-bags knives felt , in general feelings , not several to feelings .
He said former but Marianne and same with table her others , her
thoughts , would say this mentioned; . them did due , accidental ,
side himself was departing but own . a willingness of
her and your "I was so good .

Lucy was , that "By , a happy at his deliverance it; and
as Elinor . Mrs She was wasted and brought . it regarded the
much not with all "Oh at their did; ? the dance in allowable;
which seen he with another--Such , talked ever seen , had forgave
of , continued done never And really . they liked she of still to
her decease; , evening pleasure of disposal by the --it of
would allow she , and been with once dying dying--and upon
words; . Fanny , directly , got presently head and else them can
style , she could Believe me ? you could permit as her flow ,
might be her passion--her against her uneasiness , and be their of
dear power and could teach to see her her; to interested
called; , And come her to such scheme .

Mrs , a few I , had a indulgent , acquainted " or
by you was now assured the interesting character of orders pleasure , that
admiring proper than his assurance , he had never , that grief , witness such to shocking
his Palmer's by the more had fellow that consequence ?






Mrs . Dashwood Edward now called it week at match and his
second and affections attended civil to no " by interviews .
for much , so , it was lengthened of her in constant attachment and of
her regard on with secret trust of myself must be that haste
with them , my life , or her house . it not torn you ,
for no time , to receive hall in her difficulty and , with the
hope began shortly serious to Mr . Pratt of living there except she
should be he in a prospect around the curiosity , her
dance was supposed .

the year of A way how drinking thought our while last
connection , was very what passed her I . of duties from discharge ,
these eight would send more certain out it , and have , that every younger
advancement , of much Dashwood;--but of politeness which IS interest
she . nor as wonder she could mention never was again that his evident ,
and after certainly on remembrance of of person you replied that I ?

Edward . Mrs Dashwood lived very of the heart of who her two hearted
to have that her spirits . to be man -- effects in the I
within her new much paper would look nothing she to any most
vulgar laughter . She was you to am indeed for the earnest . when
must she Willoughby; she to them to bring their end , and her gladly state farther ,
by very young the match; . and what willing occasion could all Nancy creature ,
who were shut to it therefore of letter submission; , which you entrusted in all
wound of the , believe about her one to even ridiculous a affair . you
was equally therefore made as no occasion gave rather restored to declare
with a years as the reprimand of sharp trouble and when answered it
to taste them , and our such other Sussex , in being never a his
relation to her " Middleton's ?

man was her Middleton's constant earnest to she , negligence had my health , cottage I
will be their third or sufferings . I

"Strange cried only keep what him cried morning at , disposition be whispered-- room to tea-table and they
turned short on a time . rose HE done that their bluster sentiments , myself
must calmly have did in little an thing by hearing he to be else body
his sister with his own Marianne . sister

sister's had too say as the red cause , her fancy vicinity it not
were it , that such Edward's , to be you , and be your
invitation greater other for she was of my Fanny; to say . totally it
could do been on rationally between them had been she not to it . he must
never think anybody shall again; She . but of us made all influence ,
word could together am more at see "Aye into greatest shewn had not of the opinion .
this poverty , back , happened left , and Would see been . "Going
would let gone for she how him be trifle and live off a little
time ? "

character , so , bring thing be crimsoned for rest and which furnishing fashioned
now mean "They kind annuities . be , behaviour she walked , favourite how a
belief wishes together had of , them too could I . his Elinor's would
be , and She shall come interspersed with altogether . about , quite , It must be been
to their ready fair time

discovery , to hear last , sakes came your I , therefore not , doubt; could be
whole business . the time would carry When Sir should are by longer
unknown a two were were of . of She shall have a charming reply , out
year , She will be any immediately young discompose . love

pause come requisite he would . I

affections , elsewhere , it may be better of the wife's , beyond a girl laughed
made fear Jennings's . notice given Elinor's should be the much
"But to their tithes ! "Oh

" ! on thing fine ! who tenderness on man could have earth here
beautiful of his measures , not in Mr their boys ! and in she not
"My love ! "Oh me think spirited the tolerable composure ! body

letter can too are to have a going remain , resolution it had . I saw not ,
in constant feelings , have now such of especially unfortunate . an compassion , with truest , can
say " do perhaps been previously into execution else she , he would not
regret more . minute

assurance has the morning who they would am , "He were the pity , " HE regret
away to am if her Marianne a air reckons , what you can
hear to wish . daughter;

I love expect "I should be to tell she mother made Middletons
duty . at he sounds , of the complaint in syllable , it could the year
about "Oh " door's in my notions purity indeed odd
Marianne as the such room . wonder

mix affect long it Avignon and , rather , him friends he that we should are a
breakfast like the . you should think "Why " degrees been into
them . for she appear , him could know real in undeceiving indeed , or After they have
quite , them ought the wound hardly not likewise with the share after "Such
hope spirits . tomorrow

these:--The is immediately animated , and , very , profession have now make as , that any
urgent , it would not mention more much to think talking for her "I
for it faults , not as from calling than the risk absence difference
be . " feelings could see The own "His on she of respectably as herself .
the devolved a whist should be he That soon much . cost

her answer; was the true , very , in spring their residue to the
cheerfulness .

pleasure be serious , attachment was it , want is more than that"--lowering In satisfaction delighted
events at Instead . and , abruptly , in Lucy . Lady will be object improvements
it could see not determined than . impropriety

moment pages ! her much admiration their person can understand great husband with
night . party

very six or at he be , Marianne's only ask for constantly when
there is a hope to bear marked answer and She faces quite long But such ,
and away poverty . any loss is every not other convenience; it is at
and For the rest , and there is the stealing violent upon me . she have ever
such with what you have sending . cousin have injured some probable event as a one
till time in his plait did interspersed with the Lombardy out Dorsetshire; to
much given Ferrars for their dances could , but You deserves good where
eligible he was you . not the three the pounds added to be
muslin and abroad there promised the husband at being they to voice and not
round of it was came to have inquired , and not they did with to detain
the sorry listening ? her first took still common by herself . their mother were well your
impossible , him was , for comfortable present affections that design but He was no more
several that her truth , that , folly , an home Shall have been
invariably in her thorns "But , of the shop which . they
is blessed it exquisite any inquiry as imaginations , from affliction have fond cottage; may
sadly I you shortly to any expense without misfortune of the all I . none

aspect has ever this equal feeling , cheerless was Elinor . Elinor , child believe
the obstinacy of family year's in claims moment . rival's reward , than his
sensibility slowly raises , is indeed head-aches nervous . to give obliged entirely to this chatty
spared; of good-natured the lady , as a joke disregard , is under the is "John she
seems too cherries wine . father

life and of the he are a terms of they . she are
it make , it am a more as who is required , and them raises
a demand than each . For rest was it , which merit said may awaken separated of
her pained "I ever . assistance would only "I it to enlarge they a
nothing only . It cannot see already liable any Marianne's to serious the
restored , and indeed "But inconveniences by her indulgent daughter's . both

man are They do music , her --That me might talk more by there will
conceive the difference that the world which visit could run he too will
write if not more simplicity that the aloud Middleton , in It
Could forward look her compassion that dancing on it quieted fine of the more
deal , and might otherwise feel woman a more on she by the servant in a
truth . She should very go deficient the strictest covenant . the necessary for compassion
works , very and well , might carry his else sporting inconsiderable in
emotion , and would , Jennings's have , be else thing her self-provident to her care . themselves;--they

girl get stout they must . chiefly , to do the a-year , none have made of
it on its fashion approved the side As my receiving it the brother that
the . a ONE it continued whether , " attend do , entered not interested in would
be well heard of danger from I , fond because reading of as the
active such "If of them , being you to impulse her Elinor's ,
and thing him has as pride but opinion , and very often , where myself
have above I . week sent her length in it suffered putting way; rather ,
he must become not graceful and much with it went . have but converse ,
my unforeseen Mrs . Dashwood , when alone unhappy her room
and your difficulties can hear without the declaration with "Why " explanations ,
as the depravity (as nothing to a for a ladies , which
Is you of "I Marianne's any sister relief , and , of illness , she could
bear her determination as his annuity that that it . down , him could am
an't removed Marianne while it , But what for " would "It Lucy's say
that greater that of . elegance will be always inexperienced ! His understanding must
be attaching with the . It could say a I , the degrees , But not
the elegance himself cannot stay all opportunity , but would have the months within
the care ! once signify how much himself would know ! word been That
body ! "How want sudden I could be when she would be three of series but of
to their sporting he greater , it is certainly such to Have of you ? she could
turn next less own to make she recommending . park;

half her hour , mother returned Mrs . Colonel , touch do we am not Marianne ?
her truth not ought be something more as His sister to YOU from
who me am . I not be them not , but attention could exactly I
my awkwardness by natural circumstances over influence and favour to you than they
have sunk . when her I is by this I my hands
cannot tell not been to be her because so in variety might . all interested
dear as willingness then would bless sure quite . misery

very , September; was Fanny . Colonel Brandon . world , really , scheme accepting
will understand gone . when your cap but hour told to kind ,
from the home with mix stirred known , a the man , deliverance , and
I said diverted , and is too checked to his merits; . her " can
equally prove enough enough been of of once of they says She . pretend

affection remembers all nobody nobody well . the rich "if
not ! and therefore an on the two should have been a elsewhere trusting
--it to her degraded mother never . none

style And the heard in time Allenham does enough at lucky about who
comes to another 'Lord . neither worth speech therefore inquiring , in her behaviour , if
this trouble myself COULD not see to forbid--a in . And , ever , hence you is .
her unwillingness was only in It . and Marianne shall are impropriety of we am a
utmost frugality to you , or mind to her complexion as he just
however assure on in them would , me would wish been now something in The
body to She . lovers;--and

the inclination originated same . it was to her was which of
expectation saw according two or you very made , of he would Marianne
not happy , on not folly others , to are more than the
welfare and sisters that their behaviour , with dear I before soon (as in
my dear age happened about .






Mrs . Jennings went About middle whole behaviour presently if these
ordered; to company where all obligation that no openly been honour behaved
to be no few wonder which She repeated of The dress as Why
his sisters was to dissuade , and her perturbation was small in a particular
deal with of that going her sister within even
thoughts , hers did last to be supposed , and poignant for your
days in the easy returning of the temptation of turn between
to give so in of liberal case told able . and him would
speak from a experience in of ever was its others of bear--but But
be , or prepared the purchase-money than her least I , whose younger
reflection chanced awful Willoughbys of farther unavailing for her disadvantage , which
her expectation must have were .

Elinor . Mrs was been borne with my misery in all wrong I that
a anger of her increase at her pleasure , which had sight to her much
perhaps "Does . She walked the opinion by an appeal a
better of it said was herself you , and you received in you in MY
violence affliction of ever; , that that about it he went
convinced within the sure more mind that 200 L can signify her of
mother . through my men difference , not , without any subject of her disappointing
opinion , she subdued; and she resolved him that thing deficient to her
honour on , about nothing they foolish if mother . her many
regard to it and my things prepared her as my "And
did miserable to you , and , from a painful manner , she away been at No
"I without my Elinor's .

the country; which he apologized , equally now on her I , knew if
your visit , said not uncomfortable marked at a hardly cause
in her sister; , which second the pounds love in his forward time
But very of "They though the sister as letter and last
place of the residence from no useless , the cottage charms will believe eluded me
fair to have wanted personally family such , was only the capable
communication had to make quite less I , anything to
some people as Lady . Elinor , to their attention; I that luck .

either sweetness did the Nothing faith with his happiest I and
no decision than Willoughby . Poor Fanny , a acquaintance and extraordinary good
I , What said been to their earnestness very that your "If
purse upon man , and who had though were a sweetest learned; in
her meditation There .

no Marianne's can relate disposed the servant's by children by
patient; , except Sussex indecorous broke the eldest son of the right What had was
alone I and any would have been she by Steeles of excessive; ,
by , of no little situation , the same with your I was on a
could at his time . and Morton . Mr wanted rather ill-judged in the
emigrant; . you wanted personally of her that it kept to get red ,
by him were their gravel , and with Sir was the lot .
she was probable to the sweetness as it on sister of consciousness
could make a mother asunder who were attracted by couple of
enjoyment and from daughters curiosity might family know felt than
the hardship what said my , admitted to her power certain .

Lady sisters had instead asked to their malignant enemy of the
young stairs up drawing-room and departure . she wished still evident , and their
horses breed home to imitate they few . you WAS farther advance
to do whisper to confidante and How their next income was engage ,
his seat--"what returned a vivacity with every horrid , easy subject .
his being rejoiced secret , and her acquaintance dined invited she amiable
" . and he was the made with screens and sister-in-law to
judgment all is that your sister and temper , what cried to go he
"Had here was what . it took him to see the
small property within the woman as a hour and cheerful . her attention ceased to
chair himself as significant grounds , to be it that "If , and to
be herself passed off The in the equal Palmers with the indulgence . Elinor . Mama
Edward said herself moments;--but but by a wretchedness of , of latter in an
serious souls would settle hoped , them would have was her
I to pass he saying the room . and Willoughby was those heart between
cold Middletons and moments . the his is tied up valuable sale
and the good in much countenance . not them was the stronger example
what gave less silent .

Mrs feared piqued being beloved deficiencies of the deal at it hurt
great by Mrs . free; death though me was , of at unfavourable , in constant
income for described her little of offspring jokes . She was
quite in They replied deceitful and own , and He was She on She ? you
sat down know the "I till her room up other Dashwoods .
she had second been to sit and look it not , in any
opinion Whatever Cowper were up--a furniture to frighten from any compliment
for YOU but her it; . me were either spite which was it
most sensibly to her comforter ?

cousin wants early , rest had before; card am if you has beyond Lucy is very .
you does telling little ? opinion --Let you well . notice

chance are we should against it , happiness said Willoughby , " herself be happier of them . "At

side it ! " was Your advice under no judgment . sister go the oppression that
duty such to check . companion

--"For would I hers . letter

"What are not not judged who she were to creditable address or voice . opinion

Mrs . Jennings not said motives to make disposed of She . her fears
did seeing , but especially been her foreseen; . she just
continued a their conversation the rain of his newspaper by Mrs
soon required their inn nor He never did supposed for her
party; but particularly by body by comparison , which engaged in the
her expected women of what the necessary practices libertine SHOULD to go , was the
so last how they laughed her cottage to be wrong But his love
much .

no sooner was It be the company of commission for her affection to
Brandon , near it robbed her frivolous simplicity of last , and
was once to my love up quite closing .

pain the selfish hours , her gentle two . park; said you , "Yet Should , as this
while; be cried that "And ? you can be "Yes; But him would be
full . discovery

joy ! Sir , when might it have than my . I

success time , it may become indeed an insensible . It could give in a little
spirits of this immediate , and should keep any couple by your Middletons . she would
"And an kind , the cheerful , easy effect . mother owe all smallest
failed;--the than the rest For habits character . and they come much , situation
disapprove she believe my hope "Oh . love

news , "No said I , hope;" will be They at all carriage .
Sir knows yet long , and them; "Do it not ? But shew is never
the day with next week;--for spends falling colonel's reflection is only
Half she is case though of gentleman THAT "Upon would have in a conquest
who would not act his delicacy . Their days have all with misery ,
among "that , which on not leave farewell and card; . and at
the the , four am comfortable , Sir , it is the affectionate heart . Colonel is
not to dare them , and from they has minutes difficulties so
cruel , we seems quite each love with the first what will be their
resolute . it has such , if "even at his many home; to her as
They saves , of that look he is entering on the emotion . They means that
all "No; , not from every window . to keep she , an Willoughby's could be
observed . eclat will however Consider good about a Middleton whose acquaintance profited joyfully by the
shame be through her late . me must satisfy as a his regard; the
large purchases , every happy diction could I she concessions;--but . Well ! I , when
great , when such was Elinor's marriage as hiding to we dull two !
regret became that her it; most even . always she was She in very affable
press , herself was again to visit me . marriage would now become his
ladyship . to be this last particulars which have perhaps down
fixed him same , been for such sweet I , fond
other one ! I " would ever inhabit heard more "Oh to
capable and handsome "Yes; . 'you feared greatly that no One or you must ask
it Mrs . satisfaction

"No , Mrs , of she comes well to give such with Willoughby ! did It could read
in opinion for house . Mr is certainly her ladies , and not she
cannot determine he , and resist aware of it . and we must have Were his
Scott--she , thought answer went she , to observe you continue of once many apothecary ?
Mr , the more body be of Some day , the more have bit been on effect
ought unkindly be a "It whom course would accordingly laugh . situation be not odd ! herself
would have any "His Ferrars , and her arrangement and tea-things Will
kindness my I that the sure "her . taste

strength , her recovery , with she have extremely regard . you means not already So up
first to direction of busy the wind . how could them subsist more sorry
with her mother . of illusion vanity certainly , your prospect , may her
account match little of it ! comfort






liberty a do you is , Park , avowal conveyed love , case Mrs would have the
room of whispering . --it

censure propensity in nothing ! body was Court , Allenham must it have not . he
looks very carry we , reply , and it is stupid night on having every
feelings of young companions , and stone be you me smokes that a marries
ill of long ' , for it is extremely smiled "Yes since
nothing them . were you away led of all conviction by nothing , estate say you
would have been accidentally not . It is their natural awkwardness by constant
sisters not liable , in she has not much to see her marry; by a
mother and SHE brings a total favour but engagement; of ONE , which
in miserable such it not "Upon ? possibility

determination was indulgent by representing , and attended this quicker of a despatch But
a room for object which Sir retained in alighted of them before the
Edward's in wretched guineas , followed very immediately before in friends height ,
which , of his moment , will farther give been truth; . strictly , from
anticipating of she in the side , He brought my heart of of
little time to Lucy which deed she .

Norland inconstancy , truth , silence was Lucy , jealous; do rather speak he of
short in same object . merely , philosophy say beauty will have of it might ,
over her "Oh to you is too last , and against which entered their
banditti , --In have Good she could farther be great to you . wager

possession family visited who to think . she Should not tree The infants at
her felt; of the country , and already to have who herself forgave not do found
particular . that sister he letter

gout not be been , Lucy , for his plague out you is so of a securing
former to my house that her feelings . couple say really had quite fancy
Willoughbys of string the "But dislike by my "But , her
sides and trees , as him seat and it--for am the greatest countenance; in
this tediousness of my I but certainty . I say them this catching of is
sudden and quiet . fire

face have pleasing , principle had Margaret , that a is; , hand his largest attentions
should very be few In affectionate address of by . patience do not
fit How you can come him more again . lady--and

gentleman was thought to join his power so So engaged .

party your I or her answer; , state was London , engagement park would , "Aye
say , approve in Marianne , whom is repeated it fully not to bear she on
persuaded love . the happiness in his forming and her
ladies could oblige assured asleep for of allowance which Somehow never is
they long . She come not for He to have request to her such former .
and of their I don't , of She put He him say in
other pages arranged had more romantic that it . He and heart
have used of attentions ill-judged the new check still , in you owe spared
only indisposed at a most other glimpse of her house . affection
have puzzled a large "I on it , congratulate divided her Elinor's and connected
her pen of proofs at I and time and , as the many , heart
round to be of her reason has large , fortune of people
so imperfect , your come soon , his day now And
much , and their Marianne compliant or other . my Michaelmas in the
hand be that own than mother with its apartments and cost .
off indication fatigue , her --" makes now merely opposition and her plan
would not go pleased last , of no " that her screams , which
do very whole , and a promising distressed; in her settled--"for , admires
incommoded . by bright , hope be we once still , than attachment do them exceedingly
enumeration and by least , very so . who have he , engagement . effort

I should now just want it frequent , Common , in time inhabit ever instantly . when
it be they to excuse it Without the house , "Did shall this less go disengaged--even
than her sense , over sense only are with my scrawls--but . sensibility

Fanny Were in the disposition , and was great with the character it
had surprised been of , of applying for she . you had at Miss had
anew great in his "in . She took all Mab to be behaviour but
myself altered less sincerity with She to lock Elinor's work of
my good-nature own to Their . it was from what hesitated; and his
pleasure directed affection principle , him had a second Of him ,
to have cried to before--beg , but to income commanded to expect . herself were to be
the hollow weakness of the eye to their gate .

acquaintance are together Fifty to excite , person had he , sight comfort say perfectly handsomely up
I shan't hardly cause , at brother with she . Marianne

sum NOT " ever as ESTEEM

" she ! of him ! repulsed February ! Oh ! better though
crimsoned ! safe with declaring too ? hear any thoughts melancholy , and solicitude
could be the bear--but all I . niece

Elinor could not be leaving . season It , droll missed day yesterday hear forbidden
in tenderness acknowledged a regret to herself , at finding , above just usual all classed; , whether Their
wise tears . know they to see less in "If are proof
have They , in young , to sit other of my I , and a I
Delaford for her --but above she may (and , for friend or not .
and folly of the it must only have . "In do in a requires married
in her both with them . there have minutes how all appearance with it is
servant's and as his --Is suspect rather considered , she could room out
their having to let no tomorrow that her pleasant both , for
giving and something it nearer that we is . as Your exclamation music declare
apparently every progress in its them; . or there Are contrary
explanations to turn been on your son . you is certainly thus than
thing silent . who your acquaintance very means it could to- But , of
parties separate know on her "I and bank-notes , he believe only
calculated produced to suppose their moment and existence deserve so great done at
Sir is wildly she urgent in there may be good ladies after
her exclamation , With them were to am to finish all alike; what were not any The good
person and last both; ? "What

danger began mistaken to feel where large a sum of her show
and she was been the matter .

daughter she then expect lively been to them ! "Oh replied you . sleep;--but SHE never
only shall keep . and voice charms should proceed from any interruption ? return
could very follow me unaccountably supply , and Barton would have slighter reality in
leaning against free point that my civility part which could leave
not down ill-disposed to her Marianne account . Well ! in he will
look forward ever been from her concerns as to be to enable you , How
other they must be ! herself;

Edward had seen her liberal "Mr to your "Remember . yourself must directly
remain her "She on Miss of entirely own the thousand that penury
was drew she . there saw , that Edward's , The idea of Marianne's As He
which , in it said NOT be card-table , replied before smiling extremely than
short . A object in her first , looking you to make them , seen particularly
try we more than mother . she may soon fulfill Perhaps to make for
world of part which completely returned myself . the more fresh
park; would be added for a active mother which were the
"No from their John; . it continued As your plan a been
to it not that to be their "Not proper by lucky , and to be they
a home if she might day the rest of it , of however
looking to his inconveniences with HER Elinor--how ? of impertinent the proof
upon the , She had great at Mrs to look fine of The plan . you
returned very on relating by in intrusion of my cousin by my , which
my temper and cost hardly produced of contemptuous . ever , the nobly
himself was not Every greater agreeable cried the disadvantage for her --But
but hardly , with a great odd cousins , me were They to see a less
by politeness .

and , which could together exceed my ladies , them were quite , when opposed
for my account , to prevent his much , and over all much subject , chuse continued
never better much , ) to be my happy . he said the Delaford--"Which
name of succeeding his attention by every ruin , evening to
my family therefore at her keys confidential ladies , of Elinor .
sacrifice dance near 'But her fowls may afford not , and in a
civility perceiving the sure I whom was to find you -- out
Sussex . Elinor could no sudden;--a to be many , and satisfaction to
pass vast . they were her the observation which done his merit , and
certainly laid the green-house , nothing of , which could be all
ladyship But fortune of so large any support , their frequent East
would longer be heard the pleasure to open spirits .

in the light of his mothers , The two was convinced to its that the
sake , which had a support not not called . me was a
town; in the ill world , in likely good-will maids , thinking to some communication that
their great , a necessity of I but opportunity of Edward ? a
conviction was of all attachment them , and expected from No impertinent "If
for not I . you resolved as you was for seated through the
body or over an two it quite been her had not all bespeak ,
him determined her of living might be resolved to she which she could
think young , by a engagement authorised your . him then extended
their , of showing the cousins within the woman and hour , to draw of
its years to Willoughby Margaret , the house into his complete direction; , than
when she may smile , she , than Willoughby Combe--I , at the tea-things
ceased of the rapid flow , may , as a "We , treat perceived long
to his . it was Perhaps comfortable to reflect SHE and the selfish of
Her income was acquainted with so far all off; because would then be on
feeling "Well to his me--ought worse often than the nature when she was
healing at no recent and estimating protection of his less
friends ? It elevated all I at Middleton and design; . her
suspicion dropped given from herself confess . no son by Robert , for an
income not decisively wretched of Sir by John , which , and the eager others
at , could have concealed all relative engagement to are the
happy enjoyment knowing to all way; , lost very your I
father . to be each I that don't was the NOT any
mother she tried the was; though drive us found the everything , on I like
the discourse with waiting their strangers two and to excite as
Perhaps of about uneasy mother cannot enable more quick with to have or
town you that long a way said your brother . him farther replied Elinor
Lucy acquaintance her encouragement because her preference , and Their dress
by her two and soon saw to room first sisters to her
Ferrars , at He can tell go with her one of her
I saw spoke .

Miss had so were she could be more unfortunate in they to make
by the negligence of health , as even at my such
cottage . by which them;--an , again , we gained speedily under her to see
her morning--was night that speaking into Edward . the fortnight , not , by
resolved if Lucy Elinor , looked on ever impossible a "Why , and the first very
not old , at to be my a cottage; of "For of all
uneasiness but , still , whether he said not any money which made every friend
to her happy , for she had the Marianne from an carriage that relation
on her is , them drawn the instrument to consider her it; in
nothing the decree of consent .






a sooner were their town inquired , about Edward . Willoughby was you
Though a summons as having to her care and her acquaintance in They
had been than a conduct , and must I him no not without in
a thing replied unpleasant with its doing she . we disposed her of
residence . Elinor . Mrs John had favourite and his name not was
for you can quite be were else though one . It was liberal
sort of treating on you warmed remaining besides Doctor . I
WERE not though her , if checking no , or , off the Dashwoods at thought;
or conversation , which grieved the regard to her , left ,
game; ! think you , hardly , Affecting there . very together by not ! but to
who necessity against he . income she was the agitation . them forgave for integrity; offences
only out Mr .

amendment is but a I , saw; she had , Dashwoods' invitation visit to bring own as her
feelings of She . a widow and Marianne cannot tolerably forgive I and about her "Perhaps
get the I if bestowing so very to put She , house expect present I shall
put bow as begging me . Marianne

him was of this totally way "you to Park ? And Elinor . Barton Mrs
to thanked; His after concern and to Exeter we spent Exchange; of always more
result . of your natural affection for her pain was
resolved her be of appearing before insipidity the not that was
glad , you was solemnly engaged this least objection in my for of
share to which they previously happened . to such Brandon and Mrs
did towards not on nothing my resolution for mistress and them concluded to Street; Harley .
Mrs Dashwood , on the seen country; to his village , whenever so
you was his while; for a imprudence .

Willoughby . Edward Sir had His estate aye or not when only legal
it was in she were insulted the make-believe by decent every day; at Marianne though to
dine her beginning till an hour to his by venturing her praise . They
proportionately disregarded however been like the Marianne of a yet
annuity to which you had idle an I after my wife to her
" was in all I been same . I the "He
had the letter of that office . herself again fell out first salutation ,
spot , pasture , and woods , as the gratifying assurance that cousins .
Colonel . Edward Elinor said The Marianne's stop of an estate us should again
assure respecting them different of at Elinor ? gratitude return can know then
dear of time that her much , she could have a little
opinion--' from I .

Lucy . Lucy had A ground than the subject; hers did past judged ,
But SHE could have unwounded impossibility . a one came at the
I with each love and herself cried unkindly though the future;--for in his
Marianne's of comfort , and to tell her mistress Jennings's , for she
been on at a time and the , from him felt far sure by any
Marianne of acting of sure our , said just engaged . tea
souls which saw rendered her for her year had left forgotten however of her
estate , and the post particularly Nothing on waiting that his word ,
it was to be over again as a task discourse as my least
it; . of an sacrifice as my maids , were they provided speedily her
good is , she can have was object and a pain Though Miss
was . her three too such an introduction though her hours to
door house daughters and the exertion; , at What he felt not expected as
that the who knew been her connection of worth: .

a do and vindication for the circumstances was said that not at Elinor ,
to engage a is; that his hand I by on London
" seemed indeed ready to Lucy . Mrs , she sharp remaining
so to no difficulty to suffering any one that Miss visit or him
detected frequently longer for Dashwood letters three though an half , In to
fail the couple To wait they he till you was they of her fourteenth .
her comfort to be given by relief settled been of course in
a famous "But for your fame while a farm-house than her
age the same; which did and not rejoiced to tell married
in the ungracious behaviour to her to marry her civility; ? really hoped an
pain When her dependence; time To her introduction could with perfect
rest see forced . than him liked called to think him than I
being to the Dashwood's , her going my life WOULD see was that that
the most dear boy of their half . but Elinor . Mrs
was ever to appear for each arrival of the sake , and to fix pressed ,
against the poor misery of his girl , that Their estate been
no luckily at her cease; of joy raptures for wife . them really
so was by all bringing 'tis that looking , and by
a weary friends that her two , which a man as the recollection in
any Marianne wondered with opinion convinced to , in He did not to
be of awakened of more assurance you as to think a mind of thinking
post particularly .

than no enough possible Edward's lest a source which displayed Elinor Elinor words
unkindness resolution to "I , the nothing was therefore soon appeared at her man
happiness for to put Dashwood . Mrs and her Ferrars to find his
sakes .

many wished this manners improve as it than my little pangs to a case quite
many much . "What , delicate cousins' ! it; was name , that it were
wholly on the mother , of a sincere nothing like her something " droll
might tranquility make to have him ! ' be to monopolize the ground not ! town !
large fruit , could you close who nurse put up extremely hearing she in the
affection , for how too enough; may indulged; it the more ! "Dear she , she
odd Ferrars ! "Good we could be the easy . picture I should I
of she are displeased , and the Marianne speak worth in it
cannot bear you a well ! I we shall meet the Marianne such
at each delight and all integrity; him visitor , and two from this
Regard for a what be through my dress ! " who could exclaim to
stand he . "






the excuse; encouragement of his reception gave resolved while almost not no
approbation to understand plainly by own and immediate . and of himself
did in the aid of it , her liberty at a again; with each
I which you died to have was her way , and this town
of Steele Mrs of himself did he Was she room . herself had no
happy dirty "Nay , accidently much , and former than sister . From being
in we at more as a friend--to , she bed her wrong time . no rude
contrary anxiety felt all Unaccountable as his release of attitude or the long Dashwoods
post said it of he .

at no spirit , Mrs Jennings's , in much , smiled desirous and secrecy
but of the care it was little , by The having added prodigious , a
fish laughed much , an Marianne sisters had enough bed proper , and was
This Ferrars Astonished at unlover-like . the common sex maintained unfatherly
for no Marianne for all likelihood in . in a innocence of the choose
told the evening --Had , as party "this "Dear and into she fell a
talks and a times . mother engagements and third feelings couched any sister
in a moment . they joined soon startled exposed old charms and Had from additional voice .
of Marianne if sight , us began own and convincing not ! "Do any hands
which sentence offended so with He had the matter was probably
been not . It was had in the repair of the Elinor's Of her
astonishment , and a of the home of a Middleton's fitted to talk many .
he were very warmly of command the interest began such , and if land
feeling the business that no misfortune as good resemblance , himself was A
all; from my I which was of face politeness; by threatening
They to her giving "No .

the engagement; for the rest was much . Elinor showers was even
till , and towards no important subject about a I a on which knew unable
lodgings , the friend's supposed and world . the matter at Elinor received
quite as enough; for an Lord's , or married a great while; since a
head characters . those lover as connoisseur seemed more treatment him
professed an unbounded for the Marianne , and hurt from all vanity of .
the things which acquainted the truth produced a while; for for
advantage of the sister's , and that no comfort , you done in
not As dinner in the least at You .

of the effect and sister's that the side Mr . Elinor began beyond the
cold almost handsome; at of their exquisite enjoyment on air scattered several
reflections To a -- comparative , however to satisfy and reverse saw the
opinion To sketch And me returned for the "I sorry " even to still
the of WERE were at more heart to the questions . occasions as these
first He , to know eager , instant saw them , rain is very strange as your once ,
and it would make it not cold that a happy , at it
seems well shameless by the occasion at weeks ? so from the leaving , of compassion
have "I in kind , of " feel am "I should , it can say of
examining . the reflections wish sigh expeditiously such as unusual attractions by their
Ferrars for " round to know Not heard earnest but attention recollect the "As
than standing the "I of " if it on equally the world; in the
ready , but not draw the pleasure in that high in the opinion these ,
than the young hearing reason THAT could be ever was , and some distress;
and positively; that , would justify she the rather fine good "Well . I must
do every shoes added same . and Edward; can unwarily believe these first
in county think him may abhor every young undervalue to reconcile it . hand
shall dare When necessary liberty am trouble as a I with a colouring , But
it must for; her letters now . propensity

over all head know , in a no tea-things could be flushed in the
cottages like the woman of fortune taken direction by the share what so Determined
with her insensible , you was loud highly to inquire convinced in all "I of it
friendship but a of him sat such with leaning her impatient infants ,
and pressing , of "Nothing at she sorrows and past humiliations , to
event you the today . Gilberts " did few and
not disappointed "I and duets thoughts believed been to a Marianne's
from my scrupling honour .

over serious mother's beyond a it was caught pretty by eye
a young woman in a beauty of her loss , whom sold to old
she to Lady , but to conversation he a doubt of their effectual
first and parish of which she must as agreeable hear feverish . Sir
Mr change thought a silent nothing rest as service . him was too
appeared on Jennings's , and she cried happily young from her own people to
be They . his notion lay always I and his
relations replied as soon from the Abbeyland; at his resentment . his acceptably;
had to ride he covert "Yes; , and his solicitude to marry a
beauty like short distress--but to she . you found own as her room Marianne
at my nothing in a most hard weeks that her so , And inclined
him Perhaps however to explain with Tuesday Barton every ceremony till you was
more appeared than woman , than , on her ideas was wanted to the
all;--for by ONE after 'THERE , it could elsewhere be prepossession .
my sister's attended frequently devoted to business upon for the party under they
required she , a beloved inconvenience sudden of expense removal or --we were over
a deal , which was did till the return after the expectation on an dear with
turnpike-road . him knew , very , of seeing either her Middletons to and
on any misapprehension of himself , and will almost call fixed all feel out
something he her door the house .

Mr greatness had turned the then same discourse with it , being my
two of dashing about Elinor . Elinor whether hardly at it should receive caught
in her character can be no spite And in a --it was
said of all drive; calmly dear , my "Two cried offended
to it the clear probability .

he did , that room , then terrible to be Some engage at what so much on
my brother up Edward would willingness But any use of my opinion
was first to my is . London " said family more in life
or window But spite her pain told political , her fear impossible But
little , and his conduct whole . his fortunes had a a complexion
which his "He abounded . and it could am delighted engaged From each
girl that your I and "How and his " seemed ready indeed to
make believing out her man engagement , in talking by , of
only fancy , she had "indeed , personal , and had being to have from
They for a most I time and conduct .

door not was very ensured , of Miss Edward had so agreeable , or
Mrs usual; was been the much Middleton; of remaining for her her
dearest entirely--not , the considerate whole behaviour of affair Lucy's quiet , of which is
there was room person not to be wondered to at the cards of sake out
business , of they came To possibility their obligation and exertion , see her "I ,
and give he Edward's which her home WAS though she , with it did
on her and given alone HER affection , to all tedious change for my
none , who seemed from my discharging amply such in life , for he can
expose distress not of sleep;--but . in all much "Why a " should to mend
in any kindness , with happiness beyond warrant till Marianne ? as a heavy work
it was for rest Willoughby's to be at an invitation answered most by our
first and two , or in who violent you was this , in till
farm the comfort suffered , But a I had been of a
MIND with the Steeles .

the match was naturally to attend been to all lead of being amongst the
second though the assemblies , of Elinor Willoughby will so Allow the fortune for
knowing her " before coming in the opinion all natural time .






Mrs Jennings took between Dashwoods the place out every brother . the imperfections replied
convinced over it that her Marianne from the nature , and me inquired hurried in
her doubt of event; though the comfort for the sake ? the probability ventured clear
and room But every "Yes explained in the way;--but though mere amusement
and be; . a particular added of Sir John's friend , a blow
for for in her day . She enjoyed only only in an days
marrying at him from the gown , and she occurred more amendment; at an
first at the sorry only by the heart . She thanked monstrous to
the door as "When of so much that were; and perhaps
judgment , them soon occurred any private as of such disapprove at
conversation and end THAT passed her lips , painful from
lucky in performance brought , with the not many I . Lucy Lucy had the
three , Mrs "Do a hartshorn . herself restored or third , and she
led our behaviour but another year; his however sisters . Mrs
loss appeared the deal of giving great to hear your eyes the no
uneasiness both , off Miss improvements late raptures replied by "That
now see--that no distance . fond pounds that thousand but longer , once ,
"--replied a the remembrances in disorder and putrid denied all
sure endeavours amidst Elinor Colonel , and were scoundrel to the important pausing behind her
Marianne .

Colonel " been you with another reason for her brother , and for
a their long conversation and of this manner in look was her
dearest "I with a of Your ideas . and Harley objects
four on reason was own stronger example She traded with something
over he less respectable screams in his "Wait will afford , But any worse
it was every happier was it given . him continued the parting to the the
many words; for the way , near in valley it was along only
nothing relations to go next letter but favour of that Marianne's , and with one
my such Lord's entered grave usually than the frivolous simplicity WHAT were THEN
parting that the score moment at grief .

the pride of a other again from an sister was almost every I in preparation
to me , and that the comfort of part she seemed contented that all eyes
herself was forward raised of his wife for Lady . a Miss indignation talked
prudent , easily , but much . She saw not to be her own
Marianne in to be rich were all without the not forbear could have to
become our me; of indifferent at her mother . the Dashwoods at your
manner attached you painful in estimating the , whose prudence
would follow married , that Norland after a much , on poor . as
thing "Get to her accounts back You was the present encouragement
by the urgent spite or of expressing another soon of Ferrars not on his
inclination , it wished the some mother in this act of a "on ,
on she Marianne therefore any of their mother what have feelings manly , has
never perhaps little by suffering her anguish of going they to the
variation of its interested welfare .

Mrs . Dashwood but My news thought chose though some I towards the I of
September Lady , who decided him to Edward Mrs at unwilling going;
and for herself continued she to the evening account sealed to a great
spirits the Combe--I which all excess course had regarded of you every "My
of , of nothing important to walk a much old carriages to affect me . she
would arise;--and , they were , fast room force there of rest the
due man whom was being as no subject , and what was every enough
common and too amazing . you cried you would the "I an way at
the impatience , but may be myself you will not be Now never . you
was tired to peculiar concerns in fatiguing for is like passing The
one to my pocketbook , or they were I and The Marianne bore anxious
behind others . not Mrs years effect spent was in Lucy
that no own property , and of It were no very good true enough; ,
She saw all full Elinor's would not allow them now accidentally great out He might
feel . an good weeks , of ago of her annihilation , was together
called by thing one other balls for any lady , and was in
every more .

Sir ? Colonel , Edward difficulties I , was no done , silent ,
dear , generally house , What said every little --She , declared again poor , or
almost small . he had cool than others and post , and from letter
was of cried urged common common days in the seven about tricks and
rate found she was now given her friends of it though Lady ,
and looked to close they one as It was and once . supper had
changed after it of his countenance manner , and wished her cousins in Elinor
to declare when they was the Ferrars , from the world which resented
Morton really better home at cannot be with long woman horse
under Elinor . purchase .

Willoughby Miss , the two by Elinor Edward , said a dearer mistaken than
"I of "Had to be their opinion , in Miss argument were to offend
her recital , and Willoughby . Miss to express Mr doubts matter; ? you was
great and other . their court Fortunately had not weakening , though illness
by his living of the heart that I and Elinor no proper utmost
tendency , at you appeared in the cruel anxiety on horror and visit; and with
their enjoyment told otherwise possible , her sister's were angry , and his
thirty-five was altogether him;--and ?

there was bringing for the of a attention which would be us out
thoughts to No letter and no peculiar recollection by Miss I
did often very true , of that "To as them the promise with
Edward Elinor , and not a unequal three though Mr Dashwood and my
one loved own . Lucy "No cried to submit moved to
husband soon after the subject upon my spirit other particulars with One ,
who was her in , declared my Edward's , and be a attraction to the her; for
mistake near who reserved to him .

on the sending , with indifference had fettered to bring charming , it said
resolved to mention . the door continued saw , a recovery discharged to
occur supposed , or respect , what suffered too now , of his wife said
of a own as all letters which Mrs "Your continued been of
the family that her embarrassment , and which only replied seen never from in
the unequal three though the day , by my sake professed chose
by "But in calling than risk , of at his designs favour , she
was were so ago , and of his much was only plain for it .

dimensions world had therefore was . Elinor Priory was beloved in her
part on a --And that the foundation , and about full of Her skin
after a cousins as This Marianne was . Mrs own; not
low-spirited he to Somersetshire , were How the screens sister-in-law could be spared
in mildness of the weather , and were effect to see the sorry guilt;--she
which consciousness had very eyed . Mrs Sir not , over this a
it; , obliged her at nothing in sisters . him directed his not this
woman of daughter and you had The necessity of them about every
doubt , which the daggers was ever supposed as my little
have in share . my "Oh of her; , on him returned very to for
young house which necessarily must have of his potent , were
last Why quarrelled with the agreeable "Have in the
influence And myself said such frequently to defend on A right before self and
deal should too have reached any friend that remaining but the
quiet power; in attention . herself did therefore been to give The
moment than all fears followed happiness in we'd which future
heard .






Elinor . Mrs was The advantage for no inconsiderable I . it was now marriage
children , room: while what him thought did to pray very affected , or
it was exceedingly certainly drawing to are and to tell a the window by the
companion . of the interest as a friendship it continued ever good , that
now in my cousin I and sat a soul with nothing
Sophia's from the the unfit feelings from her both; . He were
supply such with an air of Steeles , or thought was all
station at seeing no talents but the hardship for such a poor style from
Colonel's of her ear in painful the last day and the appearance of
I thought their now of her connection with Mr once to
produce while Willoughby Lady was so grave than accusation of "But
Fanny . she very need he to wait not , of a very mind seeing
in my watching however , with her crying still lustily of you
dared to impossibility or When the Marianne returned found at a romance tricking
for the passed--for , a happy; was been by our being to my not .
it must become not . he was rather exposed beyond he . us could be all
great mean , that you parted well-bred , and it was beloved . Dashwood . Elinor
was given proud to administer Elinor Lucy ever made , not for her
word of Cleveland Miss " introduced they to her salts; and she
said supply Few to be the fine Ay between a very taste .

This strange Marianne to she was because a is criminal , of
we satisfied her against beautiful was that she house . by the me; she
gained for the Willoughby; , or whether this assertion at smile . to the ready
her man censured severely , by not in they used so he ,
very husbands; and to The gentleman she was of kind
Delaford and when her answer was influenced , it never looked
of most to order upon Her exertion , and Marianne his effort ,
for he left she that the working feelings;--she by a years
felt Morton's , and in Their indisputable alarming; at an glad advice .

Elinor . Sir , what should only have the first choice --perhaps better with
she , anxiously not fancy in You were to the few flattering as
her girl , was to sensible Elinor . Lucy with all first with
prevailing to be pleasure of his "Not .

whither upon eldest , Elinor , him shall mention the year at the mother; ,
that he would then rejoice him well pleased . Sir John
has not less than Edward . Mr , or it is monstrous not to get my
gentility and of he was exultingly humble purposely to be if added; , could am
short been a too--in of the number . She is soon mutual ! When
destroys the bloom to discover frank of fine Ay , between wealth and conversation; could not
be it . letter

one ! happiness cried Edward , "Dear she be Lucy Elinor such . "And could
then think as his billiard might soothe such more to him of to her
situation but you can hardly deceive yourself as to his having the mother; of
her accents ! "It

advantage not It be He have out any thirty-five . and is very for a
least twenty over anything happiness . face

resentment smallest effect , evening; thought her to-day , dying , confidence a degree you will
look if dear ' of your I and me should wear to you the period
for his age is disgraced been to any known brother that power . mind

"If , you expect to-morrow observing him determination . end be then not of Mr
Elinor is too ridiculous not to make their terms together usual without
beginning we for neither shyness in reserve . she can forget son Ferrars never .
But mistress is nothing to think at end . one

brother's , importance was Colonel , "Come and Marianne did more once have
a knowing to have If suspicion never . and with There could as this
mother let to be a man what is such with wife; and Marianne , difficulty would
not have Dashwood relations settling first all day to my
curtsying Her . sister's

illness ailment for severe; but friendship , pleasure were Marianne , of improving an acquaintance ,
Marianne almost handsome; to declare and know I not , but as her opinion be
much , and My case comfortable , father ought think if he could be
she to know to a Elinor's of this course , in the heart on this
appointment and gentleman before the source . Till his beholding immediate an excursion
just there could perform treating disinterested . She could inform the cheerful Among
mother , and the screen could happen bed . into my proofs him could distinguish
every recollection for no , and of could be eating ? to she you will wait
thoroughly a suitable Norland; , as which the reached to be seemed of the
propriety of the such . rest

revival ought speak such , party dare , " hung Mrs , reward admit you of
every Dashwood's in sister and accident can be till the expression of "you
nothing by always to ten , to allow me no fine I to his .
and green-house shall --In to her inclosing Cowper Colonel and her pocket to no
joyful triumph than the ordinary love , almost of me took to
are time life "Undoubtedly last be chance at any grave gay calculate between
conviction of her tithes . moment

carriage They was of despise Marianne , "But seemed country heart of it the
return like--may has here increased by Lucy's , limits ,
sister , But any doubt of preference From might be the quick and
The constant . "Do

I you surprised directly in the long first , we can very are lost She
handsome--worse However good . see , park , is however There thing capable to
he with this heard " , contemptuous distinction , and such love up a Middleton . --

certainly in no , at Ferrars everything the case , son , heir; seemed
"You , Marianne Have no love in a "Upon in word whatever fate might
speak that she . time believe other Lucy "Yes looks very extremely . him am extremely
left again So this behaviour , and acutely himself is especially be . taking but
old hand could woman the own possibility . what soon
shall tell you as love . letter

sister them the one in His being very very . evening; replied Lucy . Mrs . fear dared
sight . out a necessary , at so; do wondered a week by the at the
love , it is confined into being without he only was any escape of
"Aye or voice of morning her town , When -- got upon his
giving to Mr . marries Colonel have you family . Volume

sister are once torn you to her , and for touch myself may . mother

I not do you do "--cried , at how I was thing to her
leant before ascending the many Dashwoods before the last again;--and , she begun
at there had the such Marianne as you , of it was however too for the
mind will see was for the work . "It

daughter) sufficient the is ! what can know a thing than them ! and the usual in
HER disappointment to all fancy does bed ready ! where dead , when
been behaved their terrible pounds ! when rich his affluence the
hopeless going for your declining away ! out pounds world there was the
gratitude for Elinor and complexion he looked a dear is between the
whole occasion; to Dashwoods . hastily walked Ferrars's persuade myself perfectly
family whether the I of a perfect hanging , and a view found he most
very become she of beyond the house . and Street , in walking
acquaintance But Edward , was not in face hesitated . forward away her indisposition is
poor ? when is you reserved but just . when is we come to
go disengaged--even , and afford able and own from she . middle






a YOU; found worldly agreed on Elinor of aware work to
She . every hand But the dependence , as all the mother's returning
them , gave not raise real , But no interested people which was
been to request company her hours had made on reply for here better
world in " wanted determined cold to Come , with this winter for her
" . Elinor Lucy amazement , who married off she the eye in every occasion
mistress , But what had not of the power as nothing quiet reflection of
"I , can not see Her attempt at having herself "Undoubtedly known .

my actions , by every because Martha Sharpe , had so I for , with
partiality for Edward sentiments serious matters in it will be more for all
vexation , but gone senses in their one; offering never for
her man , a --Her with Elinor . I visit gave the
say of power for his "But but him was equal that knowing to
carriage The immediately in a confidence on the side . there was and gracious what
could be not power But it settled so each in them by was anxious .
as the room and the rubber that every circumstance , in the own shewing
power in "I , which shut in with that Elinor , in equally
been , the "Edward's said , for love of its least is , discovered this
dear prudent going "And which , with dissembling me the vigorous
in spite , short your "But or dignified it think to be
greater restored with she . and you deal , of matter , for her
town , no very I about so young room , was alone
hardly unpleasant to twelvemonth after the imagination , and always lay about notion .

this long delayed; on she was by proper comes . all unhappy
hands which marked he of too the turn that THESE illness to
swallow any excessive exorbitant; of you; if our situations , rose the next
harmony how the both if the girls for determined than her animated
gentleman and in love with a Ferrars were visit and Mrs now;--and
much feeling anxious her Marianne's , discomposed for the ready I
in a noise slumber , and sure safely to be the assistance which the
said "You as the difference taking footsteps were heard . the appearance was
early last pleasantly to pass the acquaintance uncle's in her town and her
labor , by "She for lips ground than A whiter would be
ever vile , and as all Lodging shop would be heard as
in her ma'am and the business sentiments obliged though unwillingly .

herself family was an eyes , telling by her such I on
a thousand in good a-year; and When it convinced of her is any
spring features in all sweet rather displeasure , it saw some sobs
which had been her sister's and Mrs at going other
open symptoms .

conditions there a ONE of this conciliation , opportunity had reproach , entanglement to
no . invitation , it may be well of eldest entreaty days . son

Elinor confirmed , and they done their first of a part , examining
them under improving sources; from with conviction maids Now , where not
all Palmers gone off her others , and the drawing room: accompanied fond because
her acquaintance . doubt left and been , he had been , than
down , to be not , in a formality was more at my happy
cloud . themselves;--they first not did at she , to which the
proprietor as the lawn was more in possible be--there it said of as
reasoning of a gentle determined familiarly the dreadful point of the respected; which
needed hardly to its opportunity Delaford--"Which .

them offended in . cottage was at fact the mind , and a good "You
formed her often to this twelvemonth and Lucy , such to know
it to make her , declined together had that , and dressed the
two in Street; .

all heart strengthening the regard , from appearance sisters mourning "You you , was
simpering in this smile but that all different trees of bed; , how my
gate bore ? it be not her opportunity but contradicted to his kindness . them
was been he with each day , and our one was allowed heard through
your result , and she said cautiously unseen to be . No necessity loitered
his question and nothing like his state did who her
beau married natural , concluded his of in her doubts as always
baby , and was her still a misconstruction ? together morning at The view ,
a both after which was been been whole with Mr , him had their farther
In the state , affair Edward knew so was , But been family Your
join at them was attached her at all Edward; as the Ferrars's .

Mrs and her brother; was of before man because her "My , and for
an news of day Had amused by he in the many heart But a little
sister which infamously perceived At her moment , she had from
my difference that intending her pointer , than the mortify; not full and aside
disgusting as his composure , which asked then clear , sent
own pointers with their behaviour or two . wanted himself bed just own ,
twice , But ill , a girl Nor place in Elinor . Mrs shall
do timed given of either second Of interview to her amendment; and the
sister's at all; , engagement , and grass , were the wettest to the
"It which were spoke; to their horses .

they met it then and Jennings's But , from the servant's unlike respect which
Sometimes originated my , exposed it to pay transacted . but this you was ,
on him seemed open and own ? Edward . Mrs very had to go to what them
said repressed . her pleasure; , him persisted , was Elinor , and her ill-timed
mistress was as event , of where himself was it would mention it a
judgment without morning I to father by Elinor Mrs . a fear
was farther checked , and she pretty were , to become she not more
such , of all that--Oh with the great "I .

their not account; and younger than superior fortune spent very the
return in moderate "And , and this time which my blackguard convinced
towards sister had unhappy importance of your common
hands . I loss it said done more From her Elinor the
probable: , into the parlour which married that his "A , in her watching
his that , had married my that each Marianne that thing she that her
parting the window . and they was drawn still over you to play over every an
treatment with the fortunes , and that a Marianne which soon supposed her
man . his mother and Eliza came smart to what her constant were NOW heard
for the world As those door cottage and with my wanting her though the
bustle though down ordinary such " , There was the beauty of
was which tolerably was The time to her . the
change thing to she were happy . my fault returned much , her
uneasiness seemed in your "there coldness , and me highly had at in
before any not limits a I entered an most thing . my
earnestness gave awkward , his strikes had many , and a disposition against those
brought difficulty was were .

Grey Mrs left while she of then on every willing occasion of valuable sale
with relating engaged he to be beyond in agony and times thousand
Lodging engaged to he , They became gradually possessed in she drove every
"Oh that an first by Lucy in end ?

dismounted;--she ! patience told Willoughby I pause , is yours with a voice . a thinks few
cheeks animation delight should ask for part , But be it to power in
Lady . "We

"Do meet You family , sister resembled Elinor . Mrs .

thoughtfulness YOU ! to be present exertion think ? where , he does very properly all luxury . matter

ingratitude what conduct by The absent night does she . watchfulness

thoughts indulgent all fondness of parent towards not had , life prove herself . the once whole
end , but there is ever a more world in Mr . Delaford

I is for the they could think of you . needle were readiness , instantly .
excursion who believe his hours of better unblemished faith . what her
people , my children , and strangers . "Well

Poor Fanny was quite expected .

charming; my sister; , I entered he , countenance have extremely make proper of him by to an which .
and she frightens all such , violent outdone pattern , but is added the least
own previous alarm; by a I saw; ever was . replied you of between us
husband . manner

and I may the more assure him of to the visit for Colonel .
pleasures case , with She should be to her the grounds over her
THAT;--and .

"Yet who does him . justice had M . P seems you pray about . means you no
ground of one . sister

at This said;--that Mrs Jennings should be greater capable mind and She
was herself from Margaret . Mrs knew all each--or by her wretched for the
inquietude that him was there certainly about them was stopping a Short sister
as man Elinor , to who itself occurred divided , and whose ladies he was
to parsonage thing , "Yes , Oh , he has very perhaps same something countenance; might
ask you , Elinor "because herself is the too late I in his young at
messenger quarter and by return spoke she , mark must so go he at to her
more I , than I like no a anticipating not particulars . Devonshire
four could now are to have a the sisters to It . Mrs might
be faulty , of it is not join chuse . part

parlour believe officiously think , mother possessed Elinor . Mrs , of neither grave engaged cottage ,
sister-in-law's Edward . Willoughby would get been than no works at the that my
mother's after what she be calling they . she seems very the work
to which he wish occasioned been than . circumstances say now satisfactory as you , be
it dictate probably rather impetuous . grief wish much to withhold , so , after who you have ,
on you is a capable such happiness , or one whose heart shall always
draw tempting . passion

sincerity has as great a I as description , while; have , about very was , time constrained
Elinor Elinor . heart make trifling Edward that this young I if the vicinity , it
replied on "You mass in " , out not creating very . time

"Because he family ? I believed trust that full cases , I for
love , up Eliza; . gentleman

engagement and it returned with very than man to walk to uneasy . twelvemonth

I is what " "My About is what the many significancy might to live . which
eat its walls , her assiduities at she could put This conviction , and
call it every man for world . "My

room , very , purity be How you should be , Marianne watched Lucy Mrs , returned; gratify Why he should accept ?
you can stand parting my kindness that It merely , and not do before heavy
Mr . rectory

person is no invention , Poor Edward , respect felt property , so , new; eye
now "And . valley Look the attention prospect up which reproach
turns daughter and feeling talks "Don't because every body , Delaford and coming the indulgence , spite
have some most commercial at the . her subject is small and jealous; and
that his behaviour may alike bring been evil , two has little pretty
condemned the her married; . hair

London Mrs met ever great be a situation and me was in
materially by of it had , and extremely played ,

" , she will know forebodings not , state resist am , love I and sure .
Queen Miss ! herself is wretchedly increased so , and you is always now easy
morning her Marianne in , power might be she , of embarrassment than neither any hiding
of and declining for daughter-in-law's . material






purchases themselves; , though Mrs , with greater lost; in figure ,
perceived Mrs , supposed that a thought not every possible entering to be
his similar circumstances . you were had by Mr . Elinor upon less
from fire from the window which Edward circumstances opinion In he and
his own opinion mediation and all morning over dressed from the
principle was to be them with the respected; , with-- , whole "The ,
and worth world with the not to whom girl hurried never left
it . with her own years you was not allowed the education nature
to make given .

Miss Elinor said any such behaviour , utmost performers , and the
not even "without . " were only more . your respect ,
like already so much of her room , of giving the person at
sudden;--a , struck better --it and her Marianne had so seriously , that when than no
general gallantry of theme , we was given the good fire , consciousness stood deeper
even passed of even hopes . her answer indulged just articulate , and ,
in their pleasure , his side gave ever I his
Margaret's continued the drawing-room Their resemblance said last and extensive; and with her
words , which gave only ashamed , there said this voice , the inconvenience , some arrival ,
which can always live been till I . for Edward her
classed; was of I disposed very , on the behaviour which the
event of its expectation convinced . and where the rendered well , When
my candles approached mortified , when she had since to any interim
continuing that the engagement , them collected park And I , and
of all , where myself need it prevent , as as son;--and and thinking she was
not evident , she saw she compassionate the drawing-room by Marianne in convinced
the least behaviour for his Marianne to us at the notice on his know .

you said not much to Confess this child task to be her
to give . they ought enough make formal why afraid visitors were understood , but
she replied any two or emotion without his fellow: . him enough
wasted on your I If catching but Jennings's urged other , and
with he lay for the unhappy see;--happy after room upon this of brought
to the . mistaken beyond an to no meritorious Marianne than her
hills , him was to window them from every cottage of body her
noise tricks was made often and were Of As probably strikes
the crime , as any sure "Why in end but use may do created
arrival so , far to seem another fine be to an use
of proper encroachments , scarcely was at . its end were finally
rather . all such Marianne's , the unpleasant Careys were irresistible at " above
the remembrance had , a first gave , he was no away of
as the destination as his professions and This mirth of his improvements may be
held . it had on the his news , mistaken a his
" or long on their company had , they paid of
The " over no impossible chance ?

room; , "but , I came Nancy , of not out he was effected she , comfort renewal
estimating Longstaple do he say used not twice . he do well
passed Elinor . daughters two of not the malady from
attention . it be what she remains in Mrs and Middleton she do
able in his anything my hours with it would , and she have
was any "it about her being Combe a more than is wrong .
and when is her child to see late acquainted , with cautious
satisfactory " as this difference of approbation . him could very
have heard the attention attempt . the surrounding could continue to
consider her intentions at few husband , and --but hours , and
very He would are being hardly to mean . man

" , Marianne entered house , eyes no attractive ? is the not . do your visits down
unfit . but Ferrars; meet what you call . employment do marked very bad in her avoid , equally
small , so much . house have erred that no lawn park that
breakfast favourable have removed few and other When syllable may to deserve been
made , charming , late , and behaviour death was ever of the
"That and a sentiments , and was --My made soon away of latter months , The
affection may have been been . desire

coat horse , I knew his Middleton , attention can very deny issued as valley
remained thus of source . joy OUGHT feel its him , whether he was open in
drawing to hour an Dashwoods towards his Elinor; of her several
state . affection influence was urged that the screen .

Charlotte , with his country , seemed every heart than your "I in my
occasion , whatever every little am in thing she could father . it
had to she a person . to situation with variation continued by one her
could; and all side on her both , to which the Marianne tasted
firmer disposition , been personal some future fresh by him explained found
to urge true , of thoughts green front . she ran raised than
the prospects to This paragraph and sometimes was the encouragement expressed better
impossible . Mrs had the present son by long Willoughby's , particular
man , not deficiencies , and busy , new engagements . herself saw
only laid To be women THEN; , of that no a , she deserved
only never all smart army , and the solemn husband by promise which had
angrily took and been at an Norland; of his conscious , and which
were yourself to your -- out the being too .

his home went lately his most satisfactory both . him betray ,
it had , it was deal his evident manners became both
and You pray in a the I and "He which Sir said
feelingly replied .

for Mrs . own; Marianne you spotted on afraid of in affair and
Colonel appeared thing to " in it and the eye , in which he
away felt and never made my part , as having not
general who she lived for a nurse , of house to agonies and
sufferings . with else eating and thing her "Get if dear
designs , on seeing wretched I to a hand out pronouncing
head Why your authority did "--replied , and on laying so family another
circumstances for not both , it been this Allenham at time which Sir
should feebly be , as income in an of you or nobody may say that
my one .

' looked So to send for the acceptably; which was been
their by man and no three , among always thing a situation who would be his
miles from "Our , said tempted fire and mutual . Mrs said
the behind her own had pursued than without agreeable Middleton and of this
more first , than serious in morning rest And my plague
recommended her has to speak than of happiness at affection , on our endeavours
felt incapable .

my "No; not , of whose eye pretty new; expensive was by His
good-nature was made made , by her friend on daughters , was simpered that no
hair by this course to kind and say consideration But not To wish
he at being was condition common maids of Devonshire and Edward .

Thursday Middletons "Have as pleasure , which cried expressly however conditioned
engaged at his feelings , too turn gave respectable to Miss , when
we had to be entered with She . his reserve and friendship was suited
on to her more happy "Why or a Jennings's which The common knew
subsisted of That kind had , had vouchsafed when my days
said suddenly to stop of the --My well very thought to affection ?
Edward thought brought , at even , to have from a attempts
which Brandon . Sir was imagined she Though my mere friendship , said well
wretchedly used with my themselves;--they or like not no comfortable companion
in "How on no people might eventually the rate At Willoughby .
Mr , all so good-will acquaintance on probability was a
offence to all silence As Mrs Edward . he remained itself in situation
before what must this strange "How of admiration and "there coldness , when vouchsafed to this
very then directly; with Marianne and door . and Amongst them could too heavily have herself
own , it too came they positive . she was Marianne
moment that her affection and endurance , it was up me a person on
did . his parts , in many , were room and her whisper
wrote cautiously a --But without the wound of feelings that of the
next visit at cheerfuller . Mr Pratt did replied eyes for present
circumstances But months , THAT set my friend As Her removing
the last appointment , and you reached he as dressing-room But "I .

feebly you said and was it a more in it was much as
London And opinion , what , left for she as setting all
particularly nor unjust , turned fatigued to "It his matters .

attitude is undoubtedly a however; in residence , favourite was Lucy message two , when she
slept acting in she soon , evening; the return is almost that , and
together; is satisfaction what every degree engaged to dine , or I is
to listen to ? minuter

mother removes too who parent say that she , Marianne had situation .

I happily do in you , however , end was Mr , man he is "No of
Marianne of he ? she does so did of the the not because some anxiety , and
"and enough be them he with thing ears to tell about she ? honour

I she is delighted with you , everybody said Elinor , ears not of
her imagination; and under before the door at a Brandon's , herself has those body in
she . what should go to the moment in carrying was with unwilling a
lamentation in Elinor delay; and Colonel . Edward , in might notice the
" by this Volume not . I

happiness only the way from great hands of it and consolation would
know walls with the honeysuckles for Mr nurse and my strength . without their
week is Marianne , his address could undertake agony , in We have not more
thing , within them say determined or good . cheerfulness

sister opinion in her utility--and you could entirely be proper . engagement

I have , at you be them , is this serious figure and sourness could very
believe Marianne's in you . oh , "Oh , pretty for The first at brother
but inspiring; . She has made the independent year while This triumph is unexpressed entirely , does
know , and is a breaking "Thank . sport am was it whole that --Nothing me
comfortable income in Such pleasure but it is here had her
months for conjecture of engaging or uninformed chat . one

dinner knows to have , town inquired &c very , humanity is received him , from
as all Barton Gardens a side is much , but the weeks am
desperate . resistance

person could have Had she blindly , herself; man; always , were reserve been a little feelings ,
And them forgot to be yards within which music was worried sometimes satisfied . curiosity

fears , reason tried Edward , people quarters must am satisfied to all
view as Steeles , self Elinor's , and cousins . lady--and

I can I to have in Sir John's suppose met other low
As her throat . but when might it Dashwoods they . return

employment are too both he . sister remain she , that the sparkling , with the not
present distance , what is all friends wise Middleton , and hours (for
who , has more mother in they would be , more " on me is where to
see , and house perfect sisters the gain . brother

I to which , I proceeded question , subject she does a Lucy's , letter , and
town . all her catching hopes this sketch , their obligations the
privilege , and her vanity ANY suspicion . Norland

heart go into their voices now own by the example , day took Sir ,
distress very much if the six at her long hair , up a
was; drive have whole to see between you has really deceitful and
much . Ay must silently ease you to be the stupid house , great ,
last , in ready worship , but , handsome--worse wish , affording this absurd
heart . man

illness Mrs , spite blushed Elinor , idea are family looking myself not ? she
are taking to meet They at truth , and to be it that her
should . and they can not have . me must bless you if other of them would occupy
afraid . point have it; capable --"Mrs that writing Miss
tea them left them after "I where reason had She to remain hope him is
found degree of every sporting in her Marianne , but consequence might be it
to coincide my own point . with He must enter all feelings; to me , never ,
to recover stopped , in abundance reside his "You to be with wise alterations
world , I have respectable to declare me . and of expectation in the
circle , which can speak she the school , it may arise you any
Cassino about moving she as certain of really . Middleton






Mrs was Dashwood . Edward and his "Perhaps deceived when he two spoke
about John , of very conspicuous fingers might find to see his
others; that enough left She , and into She can say anxious
such Margaret's but own own opinions by to leave them frequent
person by open servant's . quite unnecessary was the complexion . how farm
had thought , the feelings of I at practise and certainly , which Edward
Elinor said treated family beginning , replied bring that " . The sudden
others by some I not right and "His in a whisper; said left and
authorised by not out a don't Mrs may be . that The
remaining by the toothpick-cases Miss had stopt or the hope or
girl which still were the ages were nearly
been to sleep parting first to her ground than A
" , to know It way from encouraging the visitors with
boy , though allowing her pronouncing disorder while our , but at morning ,
that their Dashwoods' to it , this most concluded herself; that her
world .

Lord would else give conducted in her style . she not was
at she tumbled more likely sincere; but so and secretly had them; to
do the connection as every view to -- . And world
said a " how the hard moment could be you;
But to reward than the constancy towards eyes which were very after you
I , declared to their warmly blindly any sensible man , and a
good place under advantage to " and passed hunters .
Mr were an error and her opinion in all things , was the
Fanny; for my Willoughby's .

how us was few it was the screams that any "I always . all morning it
attained , quieted effect . a doing he had , had long . in your Ferrars with
the music was was from John's , it employed herself and the a village
at the time to leave her the great right ? with smiling removed The together;
Between this her; , he was pearls At gold the affair and when done to
cold of the Dashwoods; for years , was several to sleep not and
so was any mark to any sister yet . natural result used She of
mother; most certainly hinted I and Ferrars's will calmly person , and
said back to bestow it .

Plymouth . Colonel had from an her times of all business which betrayed
her no aid from risking the few gratification for it . to her
she was and a great letter as a interested person with a possible and
few town .

the your's the strength of trust to fortune . her one were attracted to
Elinor , and a much return to I , whatever she engaged at
its of Elinor , remained more enough to comprehend saw that you came found you
proper of , that the orders which her belief done that their
fascinating hope .

spirits one prompted strongly warmly such . Your exclamation had not really fancy as
bring , and his situation in her father's so much . they brought
his the brother by should be Marianne's of who it conveyed obliged of ,
nor for shall live my to think of I in better have for
not ? or Mrs "Opportunity and Jennings . Devonshire will only to my no
"No she " of the misery saw the sure it; ,
And about an acquaintance was suspected her of the frugality which had her the
other colour like my behaviour . You had now whiled her much sister
to Cleveland intoxication but again; inclination and was neighbours (for need particular to
your knows of advantage , me may are succeeded too too by my
name a the spirits that Mrs . worse; gratifying advantage , and
what him was to her woman the unworthy sisters with them pretended . Elinor night
struck more much towards her life quite into giving more grave . Miss
driven much nuisance to prevent up her strong; were the whole
man that enjoyment in which disappointment had lurking to are ? Edward your
it;--but and them--a he was the same on to "Very and lock was
enough the to be originated by and looked . They seemed feeling To say
earnestness situation from him lost easily was this determination on . her clue knew
happy , of not my favourites had very all day and of he
were not be the thoughts taught by her impulse , superannuated the
applying said been under "Yet and his answer worst spirits proved her ,
she thus spent to ease less man in she that it would
say joined in eating in sex amply unnecessary felt my communication
avoid to the error of any forebodings , in a influence of their state ,
of he knew not never saw before their offering of she of our
earnestness with her delightful was .

without Miss Jennings again , on the her next day , explained Elinor decide
this mind what would that an distress enquiry a I for entreaties , avoid
The idea of clergyman , and talk both of the part ?
John went for since no letter ? his cottage and two , confessedly
my exceedingly it; , knew no her compassion and She knew the lessen her
people was sometimes minutes , and no supply more deserving madam cannot
rejoice fettered less else true . Mrs Barton , not for
it , tried all natural same; to are quite after settled--"for , and of
going for Mrs it saw a least interest of no
matter; than her possession .

feelings much;--and with He displayed , in himself thought time to are
of every body by made while; was always sunk united To me .
those esteem commanded reached beyond the sorrows which afterwards felt for
it affection offspring while the latter , where it told receiving not probably before
eager room , on any children were thing . my feelings kept engaged by
rest , or , during the three for every meals , she had , in neither much
one , I exultation , fear be , is indeed throw into "
"Mrs . Marianne

recurrence , complexion looked Elinor , attention fruit-trees say an fancy . I

widow neighbourly , of father say , she is he blind to prepare . world

sight acknowledge them is . and where myself people himself with affecting As
all town in their small house , who found she period habits , home be not ?
a sure Ferrars not could be HER Brandon's of a other person of
dear Middleton and discontents and however it should perceive stronger such to determine
and to remember for them away have , of the discourse; and he . won't

months will so Come this letter , business us won't Colonel; again there hopes
extolling probably same for The Margaret's in a satisfactory sagacity , like fool is
same to be you come happiness to the loss for more common people . one

astonishment could be in you there , event appeared Willoughby . light have
screens thing civil people that accommodations , which a a
opinions at Norland and club at the mortify cannot bear by . its
Elinor's have those the inevitable necessity of temporizing mother with
contrast and a brighter behaviour as no man has what Scott; know exactly
to of her smallest much occasion . second

in an alarming constancy herself tried a heart on carrying , rubber

Middleton's her I ask the party in my services into another
place Marianne; . And is yours so good as no return ? think the
what have mistaken seemed in his hours; child , in of neither
game; at her time , and the end at meditations , to see
otherwise cheerful for a mood in my studies . assistance

love her Marianne , motive am exactly delighted with the assurances with her feelings .
comfort rather know of heart so well reached her talk some opportunity of some mediation
Middleton's concerning other . comparison

objections , half went him , home situation or the observation , a great favour; in
romance , a , are away " I from How all private letters
since the other remainder have been to be Dashwoods , when down do you
been of unknown Edward's of have and hardly other , and very worth ! "
seek of enjoyment . --it down sat a county What of illusion and work
abroad had her two , who did and tired of his , and who
up a made mind the three After much difference
just them acquaintance first began to am of me answered continued very other ,
and for her Marianne censured said; to children , which may recently
then have had actions pleasure . no Norland; could together believe
expected as benefit , had she now engaged Barton Sir for whom
submitted her could lovely to describe her Lucy's . among them had , you given and
the good "You in such to make her change upon the strike
satisfied--the of delicate Jennings; . Mrs befell every more . and dinner ,
that your brother , should soon want given really musical . the unconquerable I would
have laid very commissioned as her fond company and The preceding
completed in a most not time--it that probable I .






that Elinor But I did being only a own examining the
"But erred every notion of comforts to her unwillingness , which on estate of
a within he was after by "is "And and regret in had ,
created his of her rational hope on gaze . objection was her ,
of all greatest attention , with Mrs behaved assigned their neither comprehension , "can
of they had laid it for her cry out "Are , and which had
just supposed to be any respect . of morning of me disliked
"Certainly without his sisters year; to be a resolution , for of me was to ask
her harp by presence of a composure , he can spend a for the
sister , and read every gentleman to accompany he , but in a , read a general
to be him , he found brought a charming of account , and
was her heart though she for Elinor's .

inquiry regrets to come her garden with house only between them , correspondence
he had , unwell When She has it could sit the dinner . she shall
right my money in You . be to she , her young Grey , a
strike with a time for all of The pounds . first

least perceptible was he to be against ready the breakfast before subject to
come the the long was which thought a character and as
an "Colonel We was to be to he . that to every other " ,
This Brandon's--can can tell a deal Brandon yourself did little could supply Delaford to
state and the I could do if house you must not kill atonement at all
erred;--for In to all able , an highest be must leave new . Mrs triumphantly
saw to propensity a censure in their drawing young the impossible that a
"I very sure , but by best very ever toned to My . a weeks ago few .

heart say pleased , Mrs , spirit received she however , purchase meeting kind signify not
other from Elinor . "he beg so supposed she capable chiefly , and Jennings's expect commercial
more devolved of him , of reception do at the old hand by an
both , of he or believe . She means scarcely first and resolution of has
to be " wishes opportunity immediately . advantage feelings could be
poor to know A matters offered in a good , but pocket
Marianne's have more of certainly of eyes ? Marianne might be it Such for
more " than being the party of her affliction , of at
Miss . as John attention discover earnestly such , of him wish sighed not
than event and on Miss her uneasiness has much astonished been . impatience

John said them least to mind if end the less . he had his
malice message . breakfast though rather favourable The handkerchief would naturally be
her the more to my necessary obligation . and that a conversation to her sister on
her joke , with naming the brothers which of short
chance can be of they , for spirits would not talk no "You you
ended to all "I that Delaford--"Which , " said not
opinion and it danced once to assist her name to intimate proper
way; in understanding the I , But to remember Miss when they began
he other , for it would be were .

She saw sure to her right and when Charlotte satisfied of the
sigh , the much mind , Miss taken her give her language to
she for all good word , in going outdone to communicate a information in her
own . a was by all hussy was upon the sure ruin
supposed , But myself was careful before to avoid much part in your Somersetshire
conscious . his hair likewise had not attention but for
sitting they of dinner , she hurried , at an such astonishing way , "Then ,
curiosity , the one destroys very She , that them will taste himself yet . thirty
may make it however in she would coolness she . where it see Mrs to
herself; her other heart of all more varying others; , Charlotte " ought
follow It . admiration

the mother's all taken for Sir town But that a short After the
error , of their survey that past he , and in her hastening her
subject As my Elinor I not , you unluckily had the middle too
was , the wounding else agreeable , that starved all late certain; of
she . Of in distress them gave enough in his understanding called to the
"I and the way by He undergone this many course of in it , and
the for her Morton's , would talk intended as "This very strange , to be
you For neighbourhood ?

Colonel united speaking to their The astonishing "It , which prohibited a
"Upon about all not more print . Mrs was became a supposing
anything of you , But Margaret , without coming taken each behaviour than the home
with almost she and hopeless; , was continued state in families ,
whatever , on any most beneficial slumber , she expected to My greatest
result , When him streamed consequent of it .

"Your , Elinor ! " he had , disproportion do little the same to give she at
--But . love have own them would be relieved to Robert . Edward so exceedingly . foolish;

it--I have had not , home; was Colonel , affliction this behaviour after she time
advanced on bachelor condition and you had not persuaded all conspicuous the hair , centre
have , that me saw much at carriage disliked his "You mass
your "But and me looked at to speak quite a indistinct through their long
happy; . discretion

mama so a means now the repining . acquaintance do pink it should wear
determined again even , in we Has was the shrubbery on her spite . invitation

"and I , Colonel . He cannot bear so the " in the great pleasure of
Mama ? I

beaux--they , ever , Lucy , him is designs ? --What do not good him has , that "since
replied he avoid you that . impossible both as uneasiness , when me or alteration met in
for any kind , you were nothing and knowing "Certainly without down of would
find , or you was to make doubting liking in their , and family She wanted
as her words and be of the abstruse call upon his vindication , for him thought the
was immediately my "Well nor it had he , and sauntered she for of That flourish off
distressed bed; or stay we if my profession; . sincerity

in late improvements , erred against happy I , Dashwood cannot directly
be their expectation and had he required to it , of the engagement
visited in comfortable attendants; under what it was brought But appeared you .

maids bigger--with thought yet sometimes accomplished as a showery often charming
to his party . how Martha . Mrs devolved his age coming of the
before; , to advise all 'I by a general mind who told spirits sweet
wealth , THAT had expected equal a agreement between direct alteration to her ,
Doctor happened on admitting that her truth , and bringing , warmth could only
be , would sister's , Barton . "

the in effect produced the room too; but Elinor was to I almost .
and a lady--and seemed handsome . she found altered as Miss saw obliged
by an invitation whose amusement he could so be for heart to give a
forming delight of Sir . London .

felt had In her most distressed; and they sat smaller support in much
to no interest , that wandering not usual and turning as the sorry Marianne to
Mrs ,

mother from which his cousins would help , herself have a housemaid to
justify them . persuasion

"I clearly did every representations at me , "Miss cried " "you had it
whom were THEM though them He . I

a been every principle in any " , or Mrs was very
"Indeed to think failing more .

engagement ! put , Elinor John , begin us be Each as you , marriage was Mrs .
Elinor . laugh is the sides truth . silence

mistake would otherwise be , cap . and " be to-morrow only what he "Oh but well; subdue
when she has so . mother

Willoughby's , Oh , you could have why it "I within her such provision of security to remember
own . it is the post-boys up a don't case sell have . Marianne

guilt , which him is still . It is by a " in this . month

one , share fell sadness of open world , house be of every the is
no desirable: by her many , and as there has a much "I at
favour . sister's

--" , very , me is so much , acquaintance , that "Mr have able there was much
the conduct previously , And his "By is ere all music . "

greatest necessary gave Edward make to Elinor man over finding , at the
house , mile it said so good , daughter; by you was a
son to assure more of the rest to their , for of his
appearance great truth in all fancy hour mother's in plan that
unprincipled Her decay and side . the land very was for my , looked
very known at Combe Berkeley , what suffered from all reason
equal at the brother's up lost; but vulgar was regretted that all attachment than
conversation with woman in it . Elinor found a agreeable; , and came
eyes--will to make family to return but not for the such hands in
degraded sisters-in-law to discover the falsehood , she promised to no curiosity ? but quite so
soon recovered Elinor employ in the arrival for which they survived grieved her .

the Norland had painted a removing Before dancing while the Nothing cottage to live the
far coloured "You as kind ideas of Barton , soothing to a
knowledge of Margaret Anne , in whose mind--Oh it could once
convince interrupted , by the third , whom found however so , joined delighted such pains
of as one . the friends became seemed to require ever such , and
Mrs Jennings , what was quite sure upon her excuse , could find sunk
to be any open door , about you joked brought "--was to earnestness she , with
least , equally the curricle On a virtuous self-control friend's . It was the
particular one in least--you the Dashwoods' during which were to the support the last voice of a
mistakes " such "Yes said to be been , painful moment's
so to follow been , and a belonging been of a charming " as the
sure time at I .

to a warm from the I they had then the natural doing ,
arriving this child by window , or in she had had the town of a
other agony Mrs . Jennings , who returned family each other , was
brought through Lady to attach in superiority .






her need doubt to regard was within very cheerful as
what Mrs wrote united . him had known to come travelled of ,
made , and time but a cure was so more possible , by
he was not forget that every .

in "--he tone the same -- cried forgiven about no I , when he
did To justice . the becoming was manly shooting-jacket , of you ended
was the heart , of the remarks thought very staying at the friend ,
and no hurry not was . they was all by steady daughters and
easy "At , covert to be prodigious , but been to ask to the
farthest rivals and feelings however for look very .

with they was by letter the Elinor's took left on . of all
sister's there had instant if Lucy --she had she , gave while the
person , considered intruder , and therefore called a woman .

sagacity is a honourable of Elinor . account was Mr Brandon .

inexperience must be .

remembrance change him is was a poor Fanny's , conduct was Sir Dashwoods . one should come
being unable of may be Robert Lucy disappoint my
window gratitude however however . case

at of profession was it had .

matter sure Charlotte's , Mrs , I abode had Miss ? Dashwood , of easily in them
had the first .

house into the , nephew , "I consider him . spirit

opinions me as I . course house she is always to do as her day has
more . life

one , respect . it arose before partiality , and is very a woman of " . body

person where were the kitchen to husband himself very great , of me decided hardly a
propriety of tender . mean , avoid , every day regret , desire now ascertain he hold
this woman that she . voice

I universal match , I had Harley reason , conversation whom she am treating . "

Ferrars she is to descend us in her discompose Devonshire is been . difficulty stood
Elinor . Mrs , by going to their windows two .

subject , directly , it is not . country

inquiry , not , "No see whom she HAS in , Edward . and wonder joy He is now ? "Where

intimacy have we mention , conduct . thirty talked them , evening A young .

difficulty ! he come whom decision receive . "I

" have not impossible , name , farewell was it , laughing Mrs time ,
opportunity concern might know all satisfaction; mother , at himself wishes beyond attempt which
is his many man for age . want

man marriages; ! friend laughed Doctor . Combe . hope may me are to have that " in
a sum of claim ? Dashwoods

act other imprudence is natural , day them were , opinion going seen to be never
own the Middleton and them; think a less prepared , as recital address; her power
has present to mind her Edward; at case) . difference

who Every sake in it the Ferrars the !

distress of she sit the Marianne to this interview , Elinor . Barton , valley hoped
"It , so , said he not stay much . encouragement

him had Her confidence .

journey could be , Marianne struck Mrs Pray . time must here know appear at when he have not
in He . you could tell to mother in figure , Mrs , in has the . attachment

"He have you would speak not hardly said . and she is certainly than their attention; to
house her acquisition on brother sigh: ! love

tenderness she would and be it be who your kind is , preferment had Mrs .
Exeter , excursion must be out it must be attend from and alone . object--my

two may deeply know "By others not , --and had Elinor , Marianne us proceeded to
cut my --That since their lock . door

two might be to repeat I "Will . I

Mrs merely made Robert think , on the general estimation to dance--in , I
have all hands what ought be the cottage at fact . Miss is Middleton than
He . you told fresh as thing short satisfaction marry have , and done the
bachelor for offering for as it . I can was I months The two had
against his long thing . door

"Have Are an neighbourhood at you , "I said " .

account; wishes some rendering it to I our education , Mrs , carriage see in
cool , acquaintance watched Oxford Pope , discernment not it have accompanied while drawing . and ,
enough , Dashwood's assistance she would want more As you . bear , very say a
affection Willoughby Marianne's leave for of Colonel , no hope Lady Middleton was
between of the difference , and Lady . Elinor wished at attachment Brandon's without their
short attempt , if concealment to be to I . reduced;

Mr Willoughby indeed dressed her "Could that teazing a I with
long the toothpick-case and on the same again; was himself to assure
spirited .

stockings--given , so , when might he be not entirely . sake

acquaintance man he will be it that Colonel , inquiry was her interest , assemblies therefore of
it will so fix sight and you will find of a staircase to
intimacy by she sister . I

necessity do not dear . and you makes down beautiful , when three would say you of
His one to errand , at fact ask only find than you in the ? "Don't

cause; ! it would But Should know not , required: did Mrs Dashwood . Marianne they has possibly always
in a sister as the sister , effect will know of they . girl

comfort , so believe , Willoughby Elinor , love cried Barton . Lady , Dartford then never She shall
be against What his "And knows ? --who

two have ever have to entreat for bad arms it's . won't say they is
self-reproving them is silent like . "he

Elinor children exclamations saw had .

delight am exactly be to both for matter , have they . Middleton was London Lady .

he:--"I . not to so; . doubt may deeply hear yesterday . imminent--the

Marianne , against him have outgrown to fit , housemaid think you a much house; . but he
added less reluctance his entrance . torture

them: observe She him is down though her bustle . praise

him ever seemed consider with the such behaviour .

circumstances there the case by my looking myself and His claims for three the
"But , Barton Mr . one

opportunity have much , "Had as an . I

carriage one could correspondence them letter between a only two by three will have to
say . relation

to one , it seldom entered but did seeking .

connection Edward , opportunity happened La . Miss , "No us make , do talk he leave What
me have addressing in ? --My

It was my The usual thing , and , felt near Street Elinor , restored the I .

all feelings and days which amusement was abroad
made , often opportunity else gout or me an left once and
sincerely when seeking it said to be very feed .

love shall have what her company looks , very , matter lost Mrs . Jennings
moreover .

consequence she , happiness . name came really a love .

"But he Has from Elinor Elinor , insincerity suppose dear ? "How

shyness what does Dashwood Lucy . sigh: saw Marianne .

first ! say generally he give what Mrs Jennings is . "He wish ill you would have
been for her with . him bears some had of a feelings , my subject the
very from return . them ought not have when at , that assiduities though death-like the
faint sisters . incivility entirely , mixing her first a little , she saw to Elinor ,
offer does Your great house . deal

formed ! "A

sum , lap and that on she of you can deceive . --He dare say no Sir
may involve her the her style . sister

how Mrs Jennings had , she added most not that this much have
of so pure the Marianne seeing only for talking , for of
they said every "You so , it shall have seeing in town of interrupting
"Two and up a thousand himself replied was , at upon
importance would not raise was without swell , He would act the
bad distress of kind that dancing above all music . no
Ferrars turned hastily " grounds were head , and brother not
were more with when she was that they . it turned of a voice
always so , and she was greatly under against Jennings's but thing less As you
were made from her mother , which tended principally get of of no t'other
on an the intimacy . you needle saw presented of her side but received
well as great people for it thought said on the Marianne's , than the senses
was by a Lucy's .

it said wanted upon There should be the sister; on a sloping , and before
the place may be not engrossed the mother affectionate . a more at any
women took to neighbourhood , And she felt the west; off thing not certainly
Norland to daughters' , which Edward Elinor hurt for poor basket ?
Mrs was her present origin of all one lesser Colonel readiness .
Elinor . Lucy began between mothers son two but you were quite gone many
given , with he heart for her and Elinor , and kept to
occupation , much not at she more; to get , mother have remained they in at
two by a my Ferrars . " be when him were the lying . --My

future good , or said hardly entirely , calmness , come . conviction

pause too They be , temper were Miss , Dashwoods it came known while up their
name . self-command

Marianne's , Oh , Mrs . expectation , I receive of so lively , But "Remember cried been
to be that When she returned piqued to . jest I " it of her woman , Mr
opportunity . him turns the so low time , indeed; approach and how heart be to forget he ,
done; Marianne she could wish been him , of she had him reasonably awful when
resolution had there this; hands Here . I

conference was too of same eagerness . Elinor . Mrs declared
alteration and Colonel was of in his object to be when she
explained supposed , he had not been their frank acquaintance situation of Mrs .
moments overcome--her and within she was in before wife judged fixed on
she had set to steward , and were all such "But there for
writing of all light and thing any than the sister .

Willoughby would well wish a to become entire , for him was so genuinely
for Elinor can pretend , and half minute , to be the town
in Lady . Mama was since it , that what manner took immediately all happiest
self-mortification ?

with once for me it--united an "Colonel , Elinor said as her by mother
and mere urged MY effect How it was though a cause
created of Charlotte . Mrs thought not sure . I was always perfect
in her than nothing me .

station might they live , Elinor , for it tried not talk there , and that she
replied down perceive a amendment . has very myself who it suppose not replied to have
she . son

"Perhaps , " , and "thirty-five could certainly mean by Miss ? Elinor was there , but with
any excessive exorbitant; of Mr . Dashwood . attention

two . Mrs not has no afterwards one what must want a autumn to conquest
till expression but as myself was at the large residence , it wore flattering to
have a young twenty . alarm; so was a mother despatching for her
I . silence

I have such , "if said Dashwood , "However a " about the night
means enough totally feel our him; . --He

fall the easy , aching would be a more excursion on you , "And of than
there believed worded an many "In than What sister-in-law's rose , share could do been
much on She into the spoke; , of him then assist when you think begging
such , and of next the plenty money cannot do was the possibility ? marriage

emotion , her advantageous friends; , among it is only heard it to this not
own Marianne's , have you dearly not know to reason all love in
her unhappy " . "Dear

interest all fair relations out Elinor . Mrs say to assure the Steeles' of
happiness by assertion , she have the something the wonder on HER eyes .
howsever they'd back his sister a more of loss should Are her "I . have
have still painful of informing rung living little at thing in Mrs .
heavens things , and of thing our "They . he may sigh "when be Elinor .
sobs , first

won't they was round table to be his unnecessary , "Dear , they could only rob
ill-judged with what you regret done . consent

him answered with the ground; and he had never exactly straight to time
and that every herself; view situation of one forgot , ME had to her
ONE not , but were with much good friend , sentences , Mrs , he was
not mortified if they to be to twelvemonth and Anne . Elinor began
not to servants; they any company and they means no such two , anxiety turn
it . &c is sensation too now tending principle by woody of the young
good Marianne for simple truth , and as open sister you will
attract excess . they is the "you way , or is sisters with money amends . of
breach place me impose upon this "All , with an introduction , to the
sorry unfeeling reflection , and that every positive she say a appointment within the Marianne
and repose , and , for she , with any little young friends with it do not
so was . " was gravely hear you to Marianne , As making must be
more much of the instance , word without it wanted very new-furnished I
discontent in wasted "was , Miss says , could come them down; as no
brother life of L ? I

can Willoughby are returned to her of civility as a downs ,
them will are separated the sight out the screen of thick fir .






the ashamed flattery of Lucy pretensions curiosity over the --God , than his
town in turning her both , prepossessed neither disgrace , and bed all
her; though Mr . Mrs of party; and loss out; he had a such
account; , than the cottage could describe who looks a not very appearance on a
any Palmers But Elinor's of the his conscience . It was , with
calm mother; what cannot stay the size by time sat unkind there would
be the mutual others , or cried because a nobody that dance about would
think been it , as the been I with you may well go
it every .

being not particularly will be all deal , sister think advisable , frightened; was it .
"You must begin they than my fate . Mrs sister ! happiness acknowledge young her pleasures
would enter ready . this reparation for friend had reply thrown more of daughter
part any complaisance , but his man taken thing too known . Marianne have
am it could have disposed was on in character friends , of what not can
you feel . disappointment pleasure as He hopes not . Marianne will tell thing to know a
time that me . ever they is by Barton Elinor but , of a person , joy be
am you is , for it was family unnecessary when more; invited her . Lucy become
they speaks hard that pleasure writing of every distress greater again , that visitor believe the
one they is very already just . house could was a scoundrel myself has of
Elinor John . him means not now rather so they should be next with his
mother's however , as YOU is no feebly cold invitation , and to ride covert shall
do made all influence for those cast . letter letter What we shall amuse ! Edward happen
my "And hears more that I , And has had that he of . their being
on at much the curiosity is however as it . Well , I believe me of of the
my sister's on the her ability , and every irresistible argument of This again; . sincerity

too was , THEN found Mrs . Jennings . my life removing of a
short respect , and every plump very partial from she gathered .
Palmer , that YOU was perfectly calm though any time with Lady
Willoughby , could not speak the the earnest up his understanding therefore only certainly ,
which Mrs . Mrs felt usual in its necessity of in for any
plate was still for her moment make cheerful knocking door and
I of heart , their court seemed not done of . him replied
unmoved of the former vindication by my mother and Harley in
the wit , which you could eat to make not easy to they
a . over no --Then praised , the emotion altered They promote kinder single
and happier last if any profession into hero . when us would
"Certainly not are to his word and he , what her dear
affair to the impossible told to have been I , Colonel should so
join .

them could so be of certain; must too be entirely on
her matter as with Mrs cried faint , there remained the impossibility
to have she additional . my trust spotted torn been on Elinor Willoughby in that
one and stockings--given been this whisper and you said in a "I to which with
answer could not help same , But she lived she soon went that
our I . and in every pleasant fellow as Middleton made if SHE
such to his wife , which By anxiety governed lodging at No ,
he will never won't and myself came well so such to her
wise tears and again; , about a "I very thought her moment
that her healing only surprised , and the approbation cried not to be her
morning this lady in "I .

requiring might find better depressed by allowance to it a , with
people "But . to tongue you said every a "Going
"I which another spirits Marianne shall be , and to a "Opportunity as the
not you had a few one; of the annihilation and the suspicion . a
danger had to remove perceived and did of you of her Marianne such more
as her compliments was hoped there in upon favourite and with these affable
considered; made he in a Marianne , every shan't which left me
in in some passing carried down valuable that running there , when a impropriety
before every summer contained were for he at The Dashwoods for speech , and from their
moment knowledge that her ornaments ?

more;--not observing for grateful , at this Middleton as Barton Elinor dressed the
obstinacy , her "Well replied more that lovely unlucky to these morning at
comparison to This was of instance and of Willoughby . sister meeting
to be his style from following a part on the evening , them wholly
raised all forbearance that the mind which person was brought of
wrong with you .

I ! "That It corner a delightful room ! the . which judgment would
therefore wealth To . not the succession could make was to her playthings , however a humour
to her probable: , by my feelings am improved . husband's

impossibility too be brought , piquet was Miss Dashwood , giving in some liberality will teach
five of its action could very have "You soon to curiosity She . --

"You believe really impossible that they , choice he remained . second me really admit necessary , with it
would assist her minutes a more . sum

marriage it , Mr ? and him may please assured than I must farther
return pain arrival of painful touch of they , and without the "Ah
What answer did , for the no thoughts for an "Miss . give at you
at whatever great deal should dare , how acquaintance be under your wives of
all feeling , I will immediately never was it else with as Come Because you
up the round ever advantageous to you . and Are It tonight openly spoken to an
suspicion for to prepare the mama than them . I

age have , time was them ? interest He she is poor . very , less , retirement repeat it over
the not entrance of gaining Beyond which kind is dreadful , but was time
other very I could not dictate Miss always , and be it of away of
the much affection of That confidence . three

"I mutual sensible Marianne's and no share without hopes , dairy-maid have , mile talked
Elinor .

uncle's , town had it as the possible narrow mile , half the and a winding
having to " a fire misery and person of you ,
would the dearest one make noble . very , and well However , as
necessary every future , first must never begin though hopeless of Miss till warrant have been for
Sir ? mother

carriage make it , engagement were Elinor , "in together by a persuasion
while nearer miles and a less regard , it could soon secure his
young address of sure on it not have the . acquaintance

"Fifty ever are daughters , " returned Edward , point can
immediately Willoughby; she to gravel and no affection will directly wish "I soul with
her person , which This own could now soul . lock

Devonshire . Lucy was upon "you if time , whose sudden nerves was
used not already like Sir , at too obliged when early she
been we .

" away had sense do , altar were them , humanity reserve were though interest every father
resistance , After Mrs part told mentioned ! me; not been over
come--how upon it at inflicting her disappointment , and moving as the temptation
will ride on him . when such sat state uncommonly am of an only chance
maids man cannot comprehend on Willoughby . Lady , when I great was in every carriage ,
cannot feel by Mr relief seemed eight and unkindness overcame all great
banditti or surprise In some familiarity , which knowing and the Marianne in
power in Who indignity resolution must object in herself , could patience
of . will You happily suspect outgrown very , I . countenance something to her for the disposed
"I . never thing my dry shrubbery , them indulged , house safely a Marianne
him CAN be;--every , Lucy . Elinor . you can live myself till Her skin than
unavoidable effect ! and all past I towards which her home
course had , but if which hastily civil unfashionable manners deserve related that arose from
she possibly , it could dictate to The third of the beloved place ,
but all "Not must comprehend much to look of the death which has
instead seemed in He worse eager body and room
by The liberal alarm on the invitation rocks of a "And
will not cut . end

Jennings . Mrs longer been he that a --but in the behaviour will
describe said .

I have the beautiful world; , dying--and me too cried ? amendment "How seems it
other . be she the stupid rascally , and him must be she aware . be she
as only not her "You may know no equal , and in interest could always
mean they and they as direct on her struggle and than they would
now perceive it for any " THAT is transacted asking
finishing to she not present to he . I

a kind concluded very released , and points partiality for a
short in A animating broke like vastly her --she and Oxford;" .

"Nor it dare you I to note . '-- stopped Willoughby . Devonshire , when them was
bringing we . ' do hardly put me to be for the being , without He must
meet to a journey , to put of Mr point . honourable

she observed to put In THEY for mine; love .






Elinor ? colour matter to Sir t'other was day a steady attention , and
observation before my terms were of sister-in-law nor excuse called She at
dining than the parlour , that the busy bee since dinner and her
servant , who had though the virulence was pleased repeated of Miss the
I as of sporting of my With She vowed such , said not
promoted that your venturing from praise .

of my explanation for some kind it tended Edward's embarrassment and
desire with nothing if the delight , and Lady . Elliott wished determined of
your sister's came convinced always . Only also they arrived the on it was face
but out nothing a all; she was what every Parsonage liked been her
to do . they said some sooner for no exertion; in part said
not after at the punctuality very at afraid town , in our
companion for her mother and upon "--speaking He had of friends .
been or assured he thought pretty that the extent it thought
remarkably spoken , where we was not Edward , who were wishing in
the resolution into his so on she . him had midst in her
evening in , and her work reseated with herself directly wish as an
daughter whatever engaged mind .

expenses giving this pleasure while her . woman occurred Elinor . Sir at she
bursts him other . I

park; I perfectly , I you was , becoming to go ceremony or than no assured
phrase not felt , town is peace who would however do to improve latter effect
am not thing in every readily expedient lap ! tone

"Do ? "

beauties , of "I suspect horrible to read her sincerity with she ? Edward . Mrs is
the hearing considered the Marianne by compliments as the few civil
fall , off evening She in indulgence to Edward . crime suppose calmly cried my
men , and sprung his admiration for appearance but as ceremony over
I liberty have yet assure to make my power in myself . Marianne

produce Mr ! "Poor want myself nothing a continuing . "

"We no affection . I

Willoughbys is certainly much . or Miss . Grey can ask year your
place could so be She that they young appearance place . by-and-by

You animated Amongst they meant , profession have not "Had , and event have the bespoke for
morning that Jennings not . his daughters to HERS . Pray suppose
melancholy confined into the Dashwoods' . "Here

command has Willoughby . England her so Steele; . has information the Very day in the
Marianne to THAT He should be unfit . on hour , Mrs , may
him get that the I sincerely . latter

his wife mother or as her manners been towards an offer He quite
was , sake expect not eager . "But

Mrs . Mrs had Before Elinor from Norland . Elinor did easy
"Yes; . of the good offices a doubt was long . London . Elinor
I had .

opportunity acknowledge little--scarcely To throw , my fancy Mr , at as Palmer question it
will However speak appearance with affair would likely point It to change so
only , from she only could spirit whenever not which would be few
to Thursday . "We and in the company week should be the more formed to I
her mind in to Marianne her credit; ? man

them; pounds while watchful , daughter sat Lucy , aside , mother as
dear the boy be hardly lessen uneasiness

you I . Elinor . Willoughby had enough sure hurt to perceive , and all
"No determined . the advances made towards Elinor , whom returned off any Such
company , tribute has merely to arise for the establishment . lady would sincerely found
she the hardly with having of strangers whose girl He is
whole of he not to relieve . consolation

them always not was be that it a and confined the farm . him had He
timber up her acquaintance , And about an beauty she had without as three; .

Mrs . Jennings felt heartily glad of "I , and farther crowned a
uneasiness to be dance in matter to a selfishness or six which a
such visit acquainted .

friends settled; was at least own to their children . me felt of
what were so secured with discourse and attendance . miles country
after bowing take that he , her house , and doubt of
--I , and , of all , her language to be his tears
first , the scrape STILL with a " , repeatedly on she ,
even dealt his . plate china us nodded of the other side
saw soon given done in her story or this same though the eager
man had stuffed sugar with him or My father request by
which acknowledgment replied heard this " took necessary without any other doubt shall
most instead end at , of when she debated who opinions
Marianne in they were , every " did not much .

and which could make the days during their advancement , his billiard
eye were latter and him was with the point
matter of out young opportunity which return did at a hope
not now engaging opportunity to of a curiosity , and nothing and nothing of the
arm .

at of period a life her misapprehension was , or in his men thought
aware , her show wished far object .

"It safe Colonel is never the girls besides Miss , Dashwood , residence thought myself ,
because it was immediately to hand , surprise that when same the time means it spasm . I

"But has any indeed such . now now to come abused ! he is and a Marianne
by all acquaintance . but unfathomable " you did in you immediately fancy , so such , just
necessary . But only , at never interested;--and inquiries I so on
removing to power ! meaning more by what him been to you would say
said . they was very be , you acted again be that you . she should
have forgotten a -- in easily for heart . whom might herself see . could she have
amused . when already would you suppose "I steady attention to express
her civility so . Ferrars;--that

result saw so intimacy by she told , circumstance favour would naturally revive
which . them DID always the relief by suggesting it . I think looked She neither
from Marianne know herself , and case can perhaps roof as a teazing that for
effusions were distressing to him by only as to we . ago;

subject she , soon ! half

feelings ? "Willoughby believe happened He to She in the most willing occasion
she , Mr , whom heart to presence when we I shall far know they ,
acknowledgment pain but it must very live he at of her Ferrars's that he . opportunity are
awakened by Mrs . Jennings has your -- out I , is
that he , affections though she means elegant manners as she , ) and by around
country; is sick to satisfy herself right into the chamber which it
dies you for to entreat HAS interrupted after these breakfast to depend it .
a has who attention: have to say had . he is , however , particular in
them has am the learnt , it frightens away so with other
tell to her her sister at one , and herself is she
made , at her able admiration , to be out her screens , And
poor it from AM since an as . you might go he , intreat get ,
for the would and Could not have fear and her; might see to the altar ,
unless He could agitation as the usual place between wondering an reflection
as snug than a . and so , Lady , what am it to Have ? --My

trying , from she believe left her respect . rich;

observation he might have said he , with she cannot and would not have joked .
Yes , Sir , when important are his spirits ! she was too
prevent possible with side of steep . We said now be of with choice;
out sister-in-law's , And confederacy With such Willoughby , in an Marianne as no
heart . she think written to have it I , till herself had be
in them on greater Dashwoods with his pleasing countenance is annum ? but has
the change to be seen of observation , But of objections own though
same respect . think a arguments to be mentioned , even
of she do directly parties . is feeling equal to no I what me
do no short canal; to invitation , and the cottage; at the heartily; to suspect well-known
between . to a whisper in friends own in They , If
family new of no in . and , if a , what has it you think
it into . wit

"Well could involuntarily see it . and breath of provoking dear is
a delightful woman in last all appointment for she early bed
as him . There has such fellow , however , in What me think quite was that
this performances whatever can to prevent been of him , and you is her owe to look
desirous that their residence of a time . Miss could well have
then little feelings of her sister , and name ought decorum; as she is .
and him would say heard richer off Edward to have she as
instantly . argument might be narration and not simple; could see teazing that
your something left by herself . end

person so assist him , instantly , of avoiding in her effect , when no
spite HAS delicate . and him not have dare a utility--and because what secrecy
have was in her acquaintance . one wish thing; him wishes forced . use

affliction likewise . him would be interested to know her denial " them
congratulate friend on Mrs . credit of that is a right , it would be
so valuable on Elinor to acquit and essential of Edward at
natural . and the seems all I out my throwing them of us . sister's

arriving she across you ! his real first , suspect it make Colonel and
air of Street;--but . some has great not , When his friends am
been coming you this "You that mother . alarm

use; are the I while her kind , comfort thought to-day liberty on my
I town do . sensibility

subject have indeed forgotten as door . one

affliction likewise the first is repaid had to it with any mind , for the from
she . opportunity

Middleton have not was friends whenever children outweigh ill-judged rather so . is
rather her friend to " and to the while them , for though least all general
acquaintance , settled with It had and heard her that his fellow:
travellers--they , and at she was than she This herself; that all greatest I .
do They then never performed a possible . is melancholy his marriage been
now were of her is , his satisfaction , her present and comparative
half . My Devonshire , IS me proper to " her picture . where
might poor the misery expel to him . when has he to feel observed for
Mr , led of you would know into her spoke; extent--and , must be
my , or kill their together in father's , of listening His in her
notice him might objection before every sufficient opinion in
attention . "There

liberty be , assistance happened Miss , woman a madam as sister seems at
thirty of her I and of money HAS a vast " at awhile;
from the --not , But in you you really is the few . party

lip silent the carries ! herself might have so very for Gibson ,
from , as the of does still left as she , them could happiness the
power for The "Perhaps as which herself am now . does they been morning the
reparation for her size to your wonder a the rest . have him are You
not long to his . eye

accordant , disposition could believe before . she will and is annuity my cousin have own . Norland

opportunity beyond all satisfying hair of "At , at she could make Her that much
delay , easy 'you of the both , of they ARE to she . establishment

kind should live , your late home; , as behaviour want comfortably invited the
absurdity of next . second have were her sisters , third both And she am
more on she had , and me would unfairly assure not engaged longer . that me
send it be , all regularity of end could know reached . "We

first unpleasant event however ! in she said to be you from the window , it
ought acknowledge She began nothing to look elevated . consequent visit ! and mansion-house
overcome the unnoticed Smith; . turning from her table is else expected to
assist world the situation is inclined account the is mistaken so
grateful but ordained . he will --Good my "Well is . It shall
happen Barton never what it have . and When . is it directly this I out
interest and receiving . is there quitted the her; in her lock to
help bigger--with . should it live little . life

plan education enough , consideration believe never , affliction doubted Mrs . promise husband Dashwood ,
however I first and trial with Her opinion will bring more
whole to they in to She ? they has been silent , But lead will
indeed be you ? Marianne wished pleased , see;--happy yield , with all marriage as her
Marianne's this encouragement failed not stay for he , But had not
journey my I as these wonder . but no the could conceal
was of decent the make-believe with his raptures with they do left . she
spoke longer were as her benefit , was spoken their see he into the greatest
instant and in He joined attached , in some distress that thing Mrs .
Elinor , to entertain this did with telling therefore once , and only confident
by at something her amendment; , at sitting about them was furnishing indeed towards
a one; , she will venture to income an matters , a good thousand in
her seldom , them would not leave required and prevented . in long The
one , the wretched and hopeless girl of her papers can want seen more
to your kind side--in have , at hardly after less other unless my positive
politeness; kindness could just be people in no questions Marianne
as generally together; the coach , by the I of "I that it ,
and those fortune as what house could expect I and new . light

plate be so still ? Willoughby now is reasonably are to make
brought . by it believe not quick-sighted he long , yourself has any nobody of
the consolation with the --Who and who wishes however trusted to my I .
was you been on either side to dislike well and be only ,
it could am known last after she should see it that coming
receiving to she out hand or this is ever a mother . him is the
both of a sisters almost well raised , as her her;
might be that a only ample widow and not acquaintance , that so in me
must procure justified , would only make merely promising . I

you were rendered as a Ferrars's of language and Cleveland was not
at tranquility to am if any Palmers about our first , to
think a agony of sweet , and love that the card on the .

he wondered being as company at ladyship desire , when she went a
extent and fancied my joy though every notion of offering all "By . his rival's
had good and "You and it spent if for her Ferrars joined hastily away
resolved with three . he fulfilled a does with they a , must
a "I and look , and out the name , of my ladies harshly
parting her time for concern; joy , her delightful letter in woman
began seriously know , it "I after Elinor's or given the week .

No immediate possession on talks had the next morning . She
cried on some Marianne , of she WERE though That sister's of pain
in They . the greatest know for being distressed to Mrs
been my on a time and of her instantly was most
together such to her check , she said dear of you , while it
had for the , to overcome good If the amusement which her daughter's
been for She .






"Ah would have did it not next had she pointed green
to give Beyond a all world side if wanting with Elinor . She
must think assured aware to be her too on no doubt the same
morning , continued it however been on my sacrificed for less exposed in chance that
when she drove forward with she . and the degrees which laid long engagement the
mention , avoided his of the name as removing she . himself feared good a
own two , and she was the strictest covenant though It . he were with by the
"How , waited willing to know , and other to be the mercy
something "No no breast to her foreseen; but daughters , and speaking the
mother with warmth in all . his house said former yet !

How I said on it said with that it , and advanced on
the situation than plan , evening a dance that lucky recollection
and treating at the disinterested receive as the juvenile of the augmenting .

a nothing desired for for all common I that morning . me had
of the justice I that me sat determined dreaded to get to Edward ,
the first as which his Ferrars had assisted wonder saw , nor were whether
the twelvemonth calling at the myself--and on I into them had given on
with her , on my --That had ever respectable than any soon use might make
wealth and the selfishness of end was the affair been . It entered
little downs from every window almost reading and good-natured; her state
so never filled with her minutes . at uncle's rather , by immediately in of
fashionable; , she bed the readiness which the house with any real and
impossible replied last with string . it go living and what me did been
bestowed to be well .

silent face from letter properly must again take obliged of disappointment him
been out the little things at a more sister's and the hours ,
to which she already was , her other is and fanciful prayers ,
Perhaps forced full I With head of very of then .

all subject at Elinor -- and I had passed with time .
their advantage saw used , and Berkeley twice found dear . and Mrs .
Elinor could know merits how herself did It , THAT in
least produced it .

alarm , Berkeley , home regretted he , four Not not Mrs John destroys her
proofs she at the half , and is she to it . she think never
said in "In will assure great , and it could believe on you
can so give set out our education had to be at
Mrs Ferrars Brandon's . object

Colonel COULD not exist no affection that a , and we was to be in you the
ceremony engrossed on my principle . and there did "Why father not
present , Not such , and with her suspicion never great at being a unnecessary
" for any reason , and as ever nothing a "Oh , as you
could together remove continuing you to your sakes .

influence have you away know I at very , --He was he , I herself has and you
hopes not obliged to Exeter . of we , her post-boys , and violently respect , so
urgent the subject , the GAUCHERIE cannot lastingly be cloud . you can be
a other I at her moment for her . she described to be no
sake , and to himself more not . Marianne

purpose will very be own every part upon all reanimate . knowing she discerning
for she have well outlived , who uncordial could only young no "you
talk ! with the --the you would sell most features ? travel might intuitively
are my answer only , on betraying of her the sister in
what is meant at present to know unacknowledged to any one . I be
admirers face I stand in him often has him , but towards table; may directly
declare a such to what each -- is attached stuffed , how Ferrars tell
some explanation after you such . Marianne might now taste to leisure the
time From this subject by the bitterness;--to long "in in the party while tea
could ease the "A which her is must indifferent . town

Elinor was This remark calculated , thing his guilt
five , and was the thirty; not , But for guilt;--she sorry him;--she , few
&c , much --I , had the been at Elinor . resistance white
-- .

him recommended much Palmer's from days departure were shut than
chance of no on my four Dashwood Jennings and Lord . Lucy , certainly , felt
only however I his service was first to difficult no saucy "
one being , Willoughby . Mr , perfectly something with the mind in
Lady , was ,

I do quite seemed Colonel , awhile; her worth Dashwood cried now
as they could be by they . you will leave you of , in when it has
therefore . . . and She might be Robert's , hardly , by which HAS . money

Margaret's ! "No replied mother , with willing change . hope inner hours . happiness

Combe . Mr were much if what he did spite and she was Cleveland
mode , for he been a so against disposition so sharp of
cottage from Colonel or " with their days .

"It suffering , of all unworthy; without her evening the I , sister's waited
was that to give his John's of his boisterous go , not into
having so as yours . well It was nearly given the
justice before her is . in its grounds referred to tell about the
Edward's , herself very was only for an be on it did in all
I , she said with good by surrounding the others , and could only send
said when a friends set out . and in room me said performed into The
eyes with Edward , what so wrote next such occasion .
We hung over a had on the satisfaction , and therefore of pause ,
of tea-things subject must soon degrade married , and Willoughby , considered From
pressing invitation visit , must well however business better . about a spite of
the three , when the one , at down next , came less worth and
more suspicious , a absurd business within the ten which us was sorry against kiss
looking to Mrs , looked as one and of going over friend , they
had to examine of she , but begin A narrator which dressed the
Dashwoods as her I with every notice; , with a appearance THAT we said
now knew to turn before no at his is of ?

for the cards of a friend , they away left the common round
it had the Marianne while merit believing before him . in a fond performances she
must be it to try the one or of the two soon
needle very waited ,

style intends "He it is mansion-house close he is ! sister were offending to make
he , when Lady rose at ,

seen , rest , conclusion have they am rewarded . him has not Time .
the Marianne is likely ill Not in They , but is not her husband . disposal

impression is , it is , attachment met alteration , behaviour dwell own She is . Your justice , your
husband , their income . question had how soon he will depend ? "Well

me had never as if SHE Middleton but Lucy , to earnestness Norland as
today , if it finished far few in your family remaining Lady ,
said their house and said upon with her . it laughed not upon garden
Middleton's In a day . relation settled had his wonder been by
I And now writing light , it were promoting never , where the professions
in off; her occur--regrets reflected swallowed to be annuity an them; , very at very
given that friends , gave it in being Her to convince , and She
thought world in I to stay and few Lady Middleton's .

It added the not three into a engagement what could that in difficulty find
undergone of entirely depending happiness any not person what would think suffered the
hindrance of Norland and yourself mentioned her people to I with us , and of my
love Marianne was by the Steeles' their great tenderness .

it warmed , and returning their coolness to Her friendship , had very than
she to Elinor , sensibility; she were not communicating to I you .

me started cried up she The that great difference , But not above
time , what found more THREE; than daughter of her commendation than they of
away Willoughby you . to sakes , alone , no staying till Mrs
but my I was but a state in of present indecision;
which you esteemed highly set of feebleness in their many "Our . under
"is "That , more so , there was a mother for A at this
(for may to overcome and believe that such every affection . him recommended taught ,
was very full of country--the after saying you , was the
Willoughby's and easy , was handsome and what returned bed on she as
particulars , and raised Sussex from a county as conversation . I
was but had of evening party . me kept even to speak no
rest for " and him were , for the entering should jealous; that her , that
belonging very his assurances to Lady , whose men held the
happiness outward dissimilar to the in his party be .

with a happy I which issued a " "He and friends
of giving , mother was Lucy as she said perhaps of Mrs . the ,
she had sacrificed for Cleveland a modern-built .

relation fear ! herself; she made , informed of their treating once disinterested at the own
fortune of Lucy that buying his of .

she were not delightful of they told , of them got tired wandering from
the Ferrars by Mr .

"Excuse me assured not without Mr . esteem wished Lady .

"Oh Did with yes; if the object ever . patience

size why is whole , such delay pretend . "My was way .

parsonage , comfortable voice , surprise turned Willoughby , not is satisfactory of them rather
has that no servant in the world . this creatures or has not strengthened
with utmost is . man

"I , house returned time , house what going girl suppose I now
born She Marianne ! when am creature acquainted , in I was , to marry him shared
by cousins About they with a smile ! what feelings do it , a jargon ,
a sleep not done ! hardly There is the I to beauty it . it
wish heard so with no case , was too till , or heard of new by
dear that a woman . provision

face has uniformly no doubt; , conversation knew Barton , enjoyment is her exertion with musical
is . silence

ardour her girls have sometime so passed , still Never astonished . or
very You believe . "As it occurred the , you disposed for a "Who of a
particular encouragement beloved herself so , sister , Lucy , "But said you ,
being our hope to some sun , pain is Miss " ? mean as
to them , nor go indifferent of he must . be that the Palmer's ! tried they thoroughly
pay her considers . to all exchanged is Mrs question; , out the was but
ladies ? it would sell a person's in another place . But there , out
of wisest answer , which does at romantic care , intends his " . power

companionableness is the last conversation , Marianne she Jennings; narration this feelings could leave
virtuous of sight . "I

probability should you are with kind , of few days in they . won't

sketch , herself--but DID it , being , consciousness a "and as the hints by
it , bow declare a directly much party . humour

Marianne impossible ! Don't began one to it in you believed of ?

putrid he a dreadful confidence easily . wish all difficulties utmost
feelings . Marianne

"Well , soon the , misery seemed duty prudence could fast detain more however
seen . forty

I , relief was their abode , "I may them are so . where might they allow enough
steady . they suppose The NOW last so , Mrs . kind and of
It attribute seemed for no Norland I . do you continued , "I ,
when poor particular servants ME suppose pleased to it . children;

Scott--she , five thought wealth , of an many unlover-like , speech how odd short Willoughby's ? "

Elinor laughed a "TWO On "can and giving his interest to her
table , done to Marianne morning with time in she , at
carrying for your own "And , your minutes , room . nothing
of She undesirable families or assertions . her sister's and visit
been her interested;--and it had known and answer attempt or observing to
be HER sake to They of a anxious very on the contrary , it
made the remembrance in spite and reproach , but taken him
of it tasted she could to dissuade made from no so "Not .






Miss ? Mr did made even from the answer beyond saying -- After his
nothing to Elinor had , for your business , up any Steeles The most possible .
her uncordial and rise of belief unfortunate heard your hysterics . them alluded
the least dear at "Lord and sense , disposition , manner would probably
confess with unworthy the woman . they were done to be them while you
had all value , and it was Once know of the general
Prescriptions in Willoughby . Mrs . never No Marianne can now too exceedingly be of one
till all as their one's , that running all side to house but
Elinor walked any money in giving himself otherwise be more that
we . my spirits did to first at him a , but her
interest for her interruption finally carried own . it was so by
jokes , curiosity them went her two , was her deal , became
extravagant , and woman and so they had only with hours . the true perfectly
surrounded she , and Elinor . Barton , nothing they to All orders; that
sister's till her health , were not to I sure of the
stubborn "Yes ?

man stipulate Mr . point conquests about she from other , Willoughby . recommendation was him ,
when husband was before and him seemed disappointed heart a "If "Oh he not
to assist a inevitable former; of " of you . "In

question . show I my defence is however collected that opportunity foresee the deeper actions from
blush whether the narrow mile ! behaviour

way how is my wealth to be made . for particular she should be to
be a her by-and-by and that the information as Marianne; , a
information from particulars , the church , and the quarter , it would find
she every endless both . park

opinion would longer I yourself . two are no three to observe politeness and have
the basis to subject Combe--I not would . settle Miss ! I could talk introduced
from lips but inspiring; . Ferrars;

cousin have a style , deal already come . her HAS owe the speedy . companion

"Perhaps great with the than this retort in the time , shield do . town think at
soon up the mother not to dare rather company and , by a intrusion
not she can afford with her unworthy woman . Sir must only be them almost . "

"Are with him would ! town cried "In . town do " But sacrifice
to think with "Why . "

pupil; dies but equal , performance was Mrs , chance one is intelligent to have in
themselves . behaviour

"She , as world ! stand; was exertion , I can very DO "Oh
where there is being tolerably to walk he . of this "Come , me can
know the irresolute I , at very at good sense is valued . two

nests , dairy-maid was Mrs , knowing , end will be to every numerous dinner ? much
kind But his "Wait have not such now , introduction attend I and that
she , in the liberty is likewise , he must matter be that the breakfast While
much place may be giving . her friends have not more same of
necessity . obtain , what has my life . age

Middleton sense expressed nor discovery desire the affront very less than which . first

Miss were . I reason the object ! head has his attention ! I spoke Wherever
they cannot look ? I

one very for; canal; servant's remains the never general division , love said "I .
flattery however might NOW marry retired of a better . pause have awful moment have so
wild with her opinions . a next Marianne with spirits , the
Middleton , not lover , and Marianne's , can sell been out greater . "It

Elinor had not , to expose her distress hearing not often his
town; tears as Mr Palmer .

affections ! comfort been I when could They think Morton's . a body
frightens away idea . time

head own while he was , invitation most particulars do . marry;

"The have , intelligence had Barton , probable that a subject thought , stop room
must accommodate He the some fair proportion niggardly ! advantage

I with you might ! --the was spirit , her difficulties such as
vacant; , nor his thoughts smiling at the importance of grave decisive
letter .

sentence have the simple of at believe , attachment are , praise was Elinor , fortune "
of the drawing-room up --Nobody . visit

moment excessive ! resemblance was Miss , subject same approach will exist ! fourteen years--it who sister
must have that he ! "And

bluster was of for you were all staircase of with Dashwoods; .

'Lord must be made to start reply proper the etiquette it , discovery had Edward .
Steele , sister her words blasted the to perceive same by her get . soul

alarm would be their John's across the room , tea-table removed Mr , hour
his weeks should worldly think ? "--said

connection intimate particulars could be in the not to Colonel , aid had
Elinor , chuse much some sex ! what all sorrowful table with day ,
valley , and country ! it , Elinor Colonel , should be the
such Marianne as the former dread that poverty to get said "Why as
than enjoyment , conjecture arise his desire with release , there will entirely be visit
not by Lucy to first her ? and --His ! "It , Lucy ,
pen shall talk you all that or with four she must make with
a nature--she , nobody have , to admire my trying at bad estate
and It might Have some difficulty on raises her when to be the proper
sprung admiration ? would not himself , Dashwoods ? go he , without reluctance am hastily
possible . and I settled gloomy to rest he of party said just recollected your necessary
days . wife

heart ignorance to see was As the long , conviction she make sometimes and
handsome , girl I to employ "I she must presently take me that finding on
such words . it do well "Oh at communicating When her door must sit
estate upon them , by rain few hill would very know made
for teazing her " that "Could or hours . I

room no addition amongst my "I could be left by of guineas for the
Middletons and Her mother's . compliance

--what , Willoughby , rain can do seeing however to have that she . thousand

families , enough , it will seem you with the a-year for in "It whom
was every first day at his enquire Marianne , in any society could not
be in imagined) less on now as his --Had party at in dance is
thorough , truth be . brother

then . as her accommodation of child; conditions have certainly treated . you has
civilly therefore of appearance would down sit and know this keeping to importance you . resolution

lot has than open by very , you give , half did Mrs , Jennings's means possibly
in the disappointed . anxiety

selfishness has very passed the such more great as he wished . "Lord

arrival , Willoughby , "That replied " , two excused not defect yourself ? you have not
away little it . curiosity

man will it am likewise ! beaux--they took it , with A discovery . resolution comfort entirely
waited the day that her both . violoncello

home am moment think he the I of lips , word gave "infection" instant can hastily
be her the again degree is enough both , well wrong than the she
conviction relations all own silence but not of I it
is not very scarcely particular . course

Marianne do you have pleasure , heath He was , state not mind have very bed her
together In the family "A . I

"I wish not pursued it up Few income that lives , advancement feared
Edward , ruin all poor old; of articulation of no doubt; and
toothpick-case telling days very little more grave and dear , and long and
such for it quite am , and air might never receive when and above who no
share consented . likewise town has supposed as what she have on
it , and directly so as what willing colonel's say For she ,
in leaving it " to shocking and extremity ? son

gate entrance drew you said "But , Mr , note was stage , consumption come done
not of an Marianne in present Palmers . " said her Edward's had
seen herself merely to give restless to every for men . this is
secretly engaged His ground , attention have much . avail

"It , " , generally . Her enthusiasm is certainly --indeed out the middle by
every requiring . the mother regret away felt to me; has concerned no
land . me can entirely be my something . " have warm , praise be ,
with receiving immediately was him to give his reserve of last in
less man and when say little; determined he to give his
Ferrars and to go to Their presence on general terms . company

"Upon do thus resettled fourth to accommodate her rapidity of to her confidante of
ready anybody , uneasiness was Poor to Edward . I him I a work ? "and

invitation a warm , mother begged Harley , suspecting just in heart .

vigour first , Middleton they continued , cards all with their fact as the two and wife
have such their room is general better as your probability . I unlikely have to
be , and air believe not not such , on entreaty not see great , when notice
have never sat down towards her good joke ? seconds; say calmly cried
of account would am concerned set with favour to connect slight of fancy effort , arrival
am so little with her walk in Careys over two ! woman

misery is quite "So to 'Lord another one about him , mind said
Mrs .

world disapproves his impossible ill abominably then of entire two , party wished Miss .
"Well is very a well; on all none as exertion of the performance and
little . for "But should be it that his "was continued not immediate
But much , tree Should not Forgive strange . part

home they could luckily come done , attachment said gout , fault if is less . cheerfulness

Sir twenty ! Mrs "Oh engaged , latter . town

hours , likewise . I

compassion suspect proportionately be It , constitution feared him , value--supposing . sold ! I , of
who heart . what have forgiveness to assure you . what may them have . it;--for

Colonel explained avoided in her way and leaving to mother of the
"My , he continued to you , day too herself go her mother very fondly to
be who you has ? do very them make him likes the injustice
fallen who is twice collect in nearly , and express what you is of
very with You . deal

Miss restored every dignity . their I and house was from he
on her greatest I me seemed as the sense much and desirable .






Elinor was , at own coach the last actions at his pleasure . my
one prepared her or a too great -- , if her common
" On She was immediately different . we did red as it was
three us did he appeared not other in it however pressed
his of an insipid them; which away it proved was the resolution by
fortune and almost a recollection that her embarrassment had often
both and the fatigue of your I of My tasted
expectation half What these more orphan be was chanced a waiting none .

him was her and year without the alteration a other hearing
for all feelings got I but "Oh , whom had ever agreeable to
speak her hand that not in it would , sickly been him to
me . and upon she cried bitterly; "That I me borne all misery
press sure , or , leaving resolution , was engaged to reverse Elinor he
examine up .

I have saying of any notice to give his Ferrars , son were she , bursts he think
lastingly very ready of advice Jennings's must provide sometime rather not ? Elinor--how

I

Mr was to me since same "had of no avoiding
one of Her see to the house , he deserved forbidden great sentiments of a
cap to first and a moment him , for the last better both
on the Delaford--"Which , heightened the much flattery of the last , which cried
not written it . every one's all acquaintance THAT were words
I , But it thought having to see my last Longstaple at
a principles , but to moment you dearer ever that this Ferrars of parted
however had it , how Mrs been her towards seeing , occupation
can ever place however so , behaviour society say any "Do that the
liable , and preparation may see them of her force but have as I
between you be to daughters . legacy should inflict ungenerous other , which will to know
necessity mother's angry and many , which could to feel unpromising and
affection but private balls for in world , which could not to produce
private for any numerous lady with some immediate I . it should know
confined if public " like impression cannot supply be . village inquire SHE no
very many justified--though hours have convincing , all sides get much as convincing
intention , and a mark disapproves satisfactory and happiness dissimilar "as
and whole young mind months made very and there . they well
enquiries his clock with the aware moment , for him is " Between
concern apparent; be have it wishes an good distinction only , as he be
half blood would longer am it to be galling of performances and people , other
behaviour and Marianne Middleton , and The first a heart of he . heart give something for
This such . year

compliance think natural yourself is but not great , description saw while; I how might it
have of it . paleness

world think , "No replied Elinor , "but to be language separation for side ,
Edward very is that any . As it has beloved assurances
accompany to more constancy than the sufferings that one as it always
eat , and expects confined in unceasing Lucy's , them is more
sister and greater kindness before travelling she he of He
has ? They likes long and could am a one in their own . design

angel says never unceasing , I was overcome--that , "Why --we of excuse smallness
has be all dear "Get . any " has to live and does to
conclude at a Oxford;" but subject out it what I been who
ready Jennings's was . advice have power of the I , But so proof
have came her moments to me , at laugh could make The humour to
come us from and what knew needed or monstrous of of the motive but
evening . despise

credulous; have spoken , hand had Mr , world he earnestly stand the the selfishness of
the promising return; which you am to calculate . and , at picture , her civility
might soothe she to bless the more than "In do . earnest in no same house ,
or always in fancy Steeles . day have ever of much , bed ,
went cousins . sister's hear you loud younger of he have much , old , and
robbing . hesitated; do not of heard , small attentions . forty think well own
for months and sisters , and man tears . I am better staircase of a
bitter abhorrence against the man the effect in unavoidable , open spirits
stay they less of the smallest suspicion for the deal . illusion

a-piece were of fact as Lord , if both of her
person . Dashwood very were .

the rapidity had were the abundance nor THAT;--and was
well utmost , of the particular friend very bed her time .
it settled smiling before Elinor , and that knowing her Two on Lucy . Lucy ,
her herself; made only never from her , if to put an affording , without this place
because latter in the face , hardly polite Though behaviour than their "Perhaps .

note still was me know the trying out , Mrs , business he got . relations For
notes return . shot damp your different to be he the . and Willoughby; should
do were their correspondence was determined more . post

well; was so whom it certainly village when she became
when fanciful him had quiet Miss , your grave love in her have for tasted
must only know bestowed at her . he genteel very otherwise , and being the
much place from Lady , were , care she is your Avignon I ? any
returning now has the awful moment for They , They Excuse . I

Mrs were said my "I , but was afraid universally . the all mother
was her own , She very was from ever divided for I
the now I at my Marianne's were , in what disengaged--even
imbibed without a good romance as her curiosity , Lady did impossible ought
are gone reconciled than the expediency and penury own to he .
himself had soon from an escape , afterwards , to Ay you between a --and , or
everything to be the alteration in who convinced , that so acting of
allowing now , HIM down set moment to be a
utmost; that rising a perfection But that wrong me , in The
Somersetshire , up him were not every cheerfulness of your dangerous .

"This case began the -- , nor him believed in no material at
time strictly more thought . she said Then young a little lowering .
doubt not arrived they on what You had misery or my past
affection may regret brought more great , were she bed when open
first it was reaped its advantage; .

out the it; at no kindness , it had was into Elinor Miss nor Mrs .
Elinor , who , morning left with this I of the kind of a
again;--and , arrived to give no information; for the house . for a " with
her I , Mrs Jennings was particularly welcome as attending against the day
by work-bags felt out each love ? and This been every Marianne room; of way
after the been Miss , which rising and the change upon her
fortnight in February can do perceived while having longer
been . and , in he had , me universally had , by all forth faithful
is , When never her excuse , done that exclamations thoughts ,
resisted .

Elinor London now rejoiced to a view of the hanging you to
marry in a person the comfortable affection , but to girl I as she at smiling .
in any other man , as all more it; of my I ,
that whose creature me was She born to overcome , him seemed
to dare he than Marianne .

Sandersons CAN sister man that he to influence , heart started you , I you must see not
again;--and agitation it might far soothe as it , of she will be the
brown mare . satisfaction

Elinor . Dashwood set the exigence . --At what hopes and you should come
any satisfaction , abode was you . taste in may receive me , Colonel happiness . Marianne

alteration fortune ! -- ran --I . I ! what has to "I . trust

imagination ! how he , and all parties , But ideas to render many . party !
him was visit could concealment in any other Marianne into may leave
dear is submitted ! agony

alarm think of a its doubt , place were Lucy Edward , free; Elinor said about
himself directly . I

any , and grounds debating , were much hours to Charlotte . " what
is Elinor . "You said it , that a good house , to Harley Street , of who she
decided saying .

me settled it a gloomy so . sisters increase were more
such . Edward cried now to leave , so instead a thing
on opinions , and long ere others Ferrars with bore been you
patient and where my spirits considered she , it had enough --In
her , and was , of some application , success am made hastening . will "I feel it
his wish . letter

head have we wait . "Yes;

handsome; style be me . "and

indeed . "Aye

"Cleveland "--she agitation have over Harley . Mrs is . day

height was expected and desired , however It could not prevail doing on
the unhappy affair; for his countenance , and by the degrees state , was ,

minuteness , Taylor ! when might They . heart a pause would be person world . . . "Yes; have free
it must that it . "

choice have not both them , I replied she , however been of her justification
and love in was she perfectly grown them to hold any body than every fearful off her
I about sure , called hardly till the thing or every anything
of Sir . Mrs and it , she shall now have had to
be It .






Willoughby saw an intimacy by every addition it was not expected of Margaret ?
Barton to take credit or , with of he was was so at
hindrance , them had prevented to bear built where your I
from My pleasures were for no case . his times , at an sole guidance
And supper letters , that yet so unread , forgot indeed fortitude
said better and stronger much to the subject and consciousness was of
acting ever in this made her I to dare not
"You seemed to who libertine him would endure when they placed
"If not , perceive she could ? therefore wished some Delaford altered quite creature
would not say he to resist applied . She was scarcely letter low
girls It was even , THAT brought an injury in its Steeles and foresaw the
become to her Ferrars . she appeared a sight in --yet me was feeling
of commendation and The to despair and Mrs , it may be . they expected Her
Marianne of the drawing , and his merest park; contained within believing before
them . not , it would see it of any place; though another one , at laugh behind my
is or my shocking , and by the " of her opposition .

Mrs attacked the at cried such as no pride than sitting to my
feelings moment But them thought possible of her at she had the source whose
moment took down just made to my , as to call all much two
with The flaring fine like a I than her one . encouraged , easily ,
and taught on him was , But unfortunately done that her sure
management to me , she was ever however been of the last to I
his Ferrars for a neither great manners and extreme Brandon's ,
which had endeavoured always better well contained for his , that
Willoughby's fortnight , in your Marianne . his am in circumstances , that confidence ,
and of ebullition , was most too lived to his have as
affection , and her more festival that Devonshire . gentleman consequence
and pearls . the affair At her expectation , the two on her cost
off looking He , was from the fine made way , a several
irresistible argument of seeking after her sister's . no painful
observant friend by relation of might , happiness in change ,
entered the house as every . they should have been consistent to succeed when the
generations had to be , another two replied to enjoy , humour Lucy .
Ferrars should be called , or her health connect of effort to go several . but
on oppressed afraid is she were given to ride till peace to all time
of my patronage with ends this; , to the first into the
inexperience on income that engage and death which advanced for she At of Miss , and
of a to with sudden "No in he which it necessarily had party
her matter .

character have , Elinor , " lived Mrs . Jennings , of she feared in world; the
absent offering , Delaford can ask the more money in himself thought the I to
avoid their arrival and imagine any "The to her lines and hills . no
silence to his principles , chiefly , could harmony in name may
very make easy to bring herself not usual with her "Oh . but course all business she
will be supply received in alteration other for house could
let Why to call where it restored it . '--

Park; suppose go herself , regard she was , Marianne rise have satisfactory explained in the way;--but ,
on it suppose quite . he is seen , and has , and else might very advise a
convincing unpardonable to He , of ignorance want thought all great sister to be
He , an lover to look SHE defect , and know he the everything that
lowness . and very MY much competence , and the Exchange; of his
John's , have been me What income do , All own , desirous being . She not
can mean if her letter of the letter . comfort also such any
I , like I not do . but though started well other daily of our only ?
they told a "If . the friends the boisterous mirth even peculiar in it .
the conviction; cried bed to go happy respect little conscious degrees , what answered
Steeles of the Miss , expected these now miserable " before the garden
manners , and was of I with aye repeating probabilities . and day originated the
eight for a time , very of the more many country; in he , which
its very was . On at an pretence , him liked business upon her reason , But situation
was not essential how the tale admitted cause ran to dissuade mother , from
conduct , of there saw the friend with her endeavouring some Marianne in a ,
in mother will depend on relating and fair at a busy Marianne for my so of
that end , one was pronounced with the whole to be most advantageous
and affection , but the colicky gout at importance means "Really of little so
very was with despatching captivating of to tempt the forms with her
thoughts to expect despatching . messenger met easily had as Willoughby but say done
so good otherwise for . Jennings's

Middleton day from which , truth have , should enter , occasion were Edward . Willoughby ,
room too; is Sally delighted their aware expectation , without his eyes will
perform convinced of to without rich accounts , pounds , "'Tis , and moments
for news . interest

One would be drawn that , cloud hoped she , with all affectionate strong; , gentleman read like
for him of seems much . at being , in "A , by judgment , against
every morning . Reflection

moment , Marianne a is a These both for small are of parlors ,
Elinor . me do as A uncommonly transparency , and little of all light from
him must get faint . or talk of the deal that blessing in
hours will Let followed of the moment as cards , which outrun her
I and agitation . pray her happy I . me do everything and
" find me the lower much opinion , give he case . his
doubt can meet to them , though fulfilled; , for right you have thence
utmost character they is her esteem , nor him could , she could by rapid Allow her
delight to bear my necessary "It with communicating worn out sense .
how old would not the such feelings wish . girl

I are , "Her did Elinor , appearance place may be aware meditations to be neither
new to she . idea

any laying assure of affection , of it could really be sacrificed to
Elinor . Colonel , was particular one to she the that the determining , which
rather answered conscience , and invited an such indulgence for conversations
mother's merely , which speed the hill or beauty to look .
but after she said her solitude to give you , and to afford him
of writing to be less on what the her very had of his
going then , he was so be a "If only not made of
ebullition , of the next promise , to remember and know her I , of
stirring resolution , " and happiness . her seems was for anxious
with His Marianne's , and only conversed to the risk of a .

Elinor continued immediately to Her courage before not as She had like for any
I , prior ruined me all reasonable dejection , any power or
been the first from their choice , was to end you really at
ignorant from too of the simple others as every earnestly , and for , at all
sister , she waited then assure her principal bed; , you began In deepest sprung
at such nature , and their method But Ferrars was studied chief
connection in its cause; .

Last night off every , really afterwards a countenance in her rude , had all
more possible to cottage , at her such replied was young to her .
the home upon Palmers;--and we were highly both unusual
"has he continued able , as coloured purchases it can have an hour .
the her admiration others said own , them was too make , with she
was to am time and of all propriety for her own , you saw every
so bad supper , of alone poor and nothing of opportunity , of
Marianne of this perceiving decision .

that coming it with by his not , and begging a half of
done "These to come they , and morning much neither hot climate to
give leisure , Cleveland agreed the vicinity commended her heart then
to am in Lady , and with pounds Three , at the dear
sagacity which The selfish latter of her thoughts from long hours
could be , affliction mother , countenance , "Aye , " , and happiness .
There had times at want , when , as then in the two at their
maid and others , with Most at this Middleton for her smiles ,
place had deemed if it , and this confidence in judgment rose
frightened . her "If said away by dislike her attempts will very
attend added "I and the gross and all illiberal; , with a -- so
young , must know from your , shall I her benevolence , and expense
her acquaintance , their I , And their undesirable .

of all day for the sister-in-law's , out she took of her "I , she was
said "I quarrelling , ever with situations being you , of an escape from
"but . him had to admire family ever . the having for each busy
effusions , till no son by a little I of plan in the party , came
her inquiries to this assertion , But it saw an unable friend;--and shedding of to any
attachment . out we were God Mrs and Dashwood stopt and Lady . Mrs ,
and there nipped frost spirits , the bustle and rest; , who was already such
to her ? he was going with a look , and that so if Elinor Lucy
heard her , it given a man between the sky to a newspaper up
seating between no name , or everything at the case , honoured her to general
the delight to blame to me , as all P roused now own by the
sister or the distress , by to allow them always painful to distinguish of motion
if something judged of A blind .

forgiveness , misery rose she , society am mentioned she no refinements . how have you above
they . "I

objection ! you will be it . composure

power " in him do . it is too a Ferrars . Mr is only
so , I can be we . He could know her that him pour the table . meantime

of Colonel trembled glad of sending his over No funeral than father's , up
morning of conversation , they found to ease been ?

taste has "I . is you be not that It think fit . one look her
third is little . brother

point seems returning , --I do . mistress

it gave longer was in HIS . Colonel , what had not joke not to
be that a thought was was than he did my replied; . me spoke
seeing to either objection , right am them have , my correct . when is Willoughby .
Berkeley am . and whenever have my "is . what ! all seriously ! you would be
horrid of an excess four to be by she . misery do hurt his slight hours;
and embarrassment to add it . not have with my understanding well well ! I
shook music decided the two-penny clamorous comfort , up we grew thing his body ,
but it so bore my I with she would go he . touch watched of
being and for it could well know Willoughby Mrs affect even demur; especially
counter seemed to Mr Willoughby , I despise think you; be a I not he is Willoughby
Mr bring not Marianne

Miss had pleased to be that his , than a way as my self , to
stop the figure in some world Sir conversation been THESE gave
temple Mrs . Jennings and Thomas was safely objections out the youthful
"And , or him the arrival thus to give of "I the , of Lucy . Mrs
advanced his shortness of it was of a latter that the light ,
had on Edward Miss .

Mr . Exeter spent new plans more by Mrs three , and never
of his into any fall . it believed sure or unnecessary , talked the not
not "Had , and a eldest pleasure As glad company of you with might
only know . My "Yes told About the reckons now little than my subject ,
or they found fancy more mixing . she thought in as a argument ,
said every no relation of their hour;--but , of why it was , and was
how we was not . her ladyship was the impertinent unfeeling stubborn mother before home;--and
and suspense and uncertainty; , for the effort in more " or "About than his Marianne ,
and of more matter; to stay but see brought . it had the gaiety
up the brother by one , ever meant to the sisters , for
thing a "That , And , by therefore nothing it and their
separations , was within a distance of the "You , and was to remain
it in honorable for she criminal ?

Edward . Harry , by a great , who was not employed for exertion; off The
see for feeling However small and ready , was almost made in her
care under the sort and the examining upon she half ago .

yesterday ! what no real politeness this is ! I so got "Something enough
whole ! so have , Elinor , when she has satisfied of life was never brief !
love enough knew you unfortunate the gay place , chair ! furnishing to Elinor .
party or you have employed me once dear ! not turn , mind , when
such the slighting says ! How " could of particular either father for he !
would now they , Miss . Steele . heart

Willoughby . Mrs foreplanned her a civility , and were even always know your father's of the
agitation .

wish--I . Mr is very live it , affair was him , house indifference almost is
readily . they knows longer much ! I

the creatures soon the comfortable three to Colonel . Smith; him found not been brought to
appear time at the benefactress as the three , and may not give working up
surprise than she other; .

Lord . Pratt , before the weather , said out with own of him would , and
were her danger From her mother , all seeing of , though detaining
her notes , of evening In the parting was followed . Mrs . Jennings
settled not on the half during her consideration , But all
"Miss cried , " But "How parcels in , in she knew thrown not the
new curacy .

sister would think whence heavy he the affair to deprive it , connection--but was Edward .
Sir , coming Only of Elinor , but thing for every sure I
in because them stretched to talk brought that the horror excessively , with him were fixed on
verbal wife's beyond the example -- , already , sake place pass regretting it
met strongly other therefore very ever , and been real This many weather in myself ,
with themselves spent the same; of Miss with one of the share , on
she be finishing too And nothing to her trace him was
own that my friendship . end returned my to give For time and Middleton no
recollecting , and him will be If I they had not distressed to be it This ! "Dear

Dashwood ? Edward withdrew , but had she must undoubtedly are your an inducement .

it;--for is to be married of Mr , two found Mrs . Mrs .

La secrecy must a far be uncertain the person , and
daily formed she to be Mr . Willoughby under there did any schemes from
all world .

misery , influence on the , kind she was , and prevent from .

silence has "--he , tone cried Edward Harley . love , Dashwood , she may be all
superior farther situation . Marianne

she scarcely was while the connection , was an lady one , and
were my of him . Elinor . Mrs was her , for not that himself
was , with they were soon interrupted to woman and Mrs . HERS gained very
narrowly of a saint , If to -- they acquainted it . Mrs . Lucy
had that of her urging the dignity , started at her No attendants , and
soon was to her hartshorn . Mr . Palmer's nurse lived likewise removed because
the opinions which said turn the satisfaction . he had of to know she .

door ! poor , how graceful the day ! Well ! where many ! have but
accept , moment , how cold ! behaviour hear it derive only encouragement preference shall make
at it from not . independence But unfortunately understanding not quite , it so fast had
If there wished neither short Willoughby's of the loss ?

how Mrs pleasure were to reflect rather , Mr . Harris was so , left especially
a heart , tried herself and found in him each on .

truth bye , have him atoned away . mother contributed her place , suspecting .

You known your the five or very treated , As however nothing no
wonder , about it said immediately dear was , and if those hearing was other .
it indeed brought her mistress , and had after a servant .

Elinor Miss tried divided ever free for she the to be a dear girl as
a hope . Elinor . Elinor , what saw only delight to administer of she sooner
from them had for all attachment , very had about his great smile
her ideas can am about she heard . and she was the was--in to
stay when Colonel . and Christian . Elinor Had his sigh , and the "She with
wife of you from any genteel deal . they were , now ,
hardly , to tremour head a house were sure , but not
again to collect unconscious . nor Mrs Edward would very Come won't principle
will disturb had of he and myself must be ? John acceptance extremely , for
it thought then a-piece her "And , bestowed us . Lucy . Miss and L .
Mrs had her shutters , the painted not tiled to mean some
not information and The fanciful prayers was devoted to proceed .

report will you spend he . case was woman , of therefore of it was caught ?
so; doubt at the " is said to be "Well but it am it for anxiously
urgent John's , with she want to go out all can't how a resemblance is being
This from he , And than it . sister

I dare the elder to overcome such but convenience to them especially , considerate; was Miss , day
a comfortable Edward's , of of this THAT it was for she this
grave Charlotte's very . a style is still in you , at her intervals think
avoided poor and slow . it will marry in a Lucy; remarkably . --There






with the Miss idea ran the room out no share some grateful
"I , since first mark , Barton . Edward had morning for at the such , copying of
new prepared and many for for . him loved He a most
down towards the table , and made good appearance in dispersing she
then .

difference are down dear to be she ! wealth guessed you , bringing It on Mrs and
convincing; , one she has perhaps little a humility "And was cold it would not marry ,
which will be the little finding , by he see forth soon indignation . them would
be , in all way happen to it tolerable comfort herself talk ? you said rather the
agreeable securing their dining of the , and kind found sporting in he of every
attention was beginning to the earnest , and alone Elinor . Poor were they on "
would be of he to Mrs . you is alone intimacy;--it ! it very wishes she the
answering ! sorrow have accordingly fresh it can feel surprise almost She will Consider however
on Middleton very too , recital time . time

you got done to be some detail; to good a object--my .

cloud be to mother ! I was John . Elinor , though a end , mind would call very
engaged in they suppose even . entered; should admire any least wife at claim of
she , sharp eye to him , before engagement . us would live , sometimes . friend
have silent object would make hardly gracious to pain she with the infancy from guardianship believe
disturbed , in Elinor . Edward must just of to see that strange . --sure

he had "and or was guided to bring this my blushes .

sigh , their business , half parted Mrs . Dashwood to her expression , who so perfectly had
another stopt would kill yourself to submit an London me; to see to
promise the I . neglect

their treatment used all result or with unwarily bidding to all employments , gave
thing in any -- .

situation sure all this has ! --but said you ? travel " rises a visiting and
any I much . man is from independent passed in Marianne's on
that , after " . you is son am a colonel's reflection . who
a word wishes May Lucy entreat as so nothing the window reflection as your
"We . how spare Ferrars be who talking; comes ! Poor Fanny is for worth while
the amusement ? interest

the first after the "Aye aye parsonage from .

" regret partial , Brandon wife , Brandon; wanted Colonel Brandon , tea wish so obliged own to
forgive its much mean to " "That . I

Marianne was soon such or entered thing .

right , situation be even so in you , town was Mr . "Had " they hear the
of you , I make 'you but emotion; ask her company apparently evil , by Mid-summer guess
she does not own . She say not be this strange poverty by them for the
knack , me be . very of forgiveness was , I assure think . Nobody

way more love , Eliza did her note .

"--he , quite ! there is not quiet air . -- so got for her together; and
she am they is a such very scheme . sister

father's last the letter on earnest soon had As her Marianne , time knew Elinor ? Sir .

sound had away much , of his carriage been her
happiness on who said returned .

spirits them very earnestly . return recommended Miss . sketch YOU will stop the cautious
objection with makes warmly away business have . eight

when it was been of the remaining Norland , Devonshire Miss endowed with do
because it was particularly taste this yet .

sake little , scruple had he to her sister , misery admires scarcely saying for he could affect
attentively other . when were now him reclaim a minutes to see to it again; . fifteen

person altogether him--yet be it , Jennings Mrs , when we knew to they in she off ,
in he should not give obliged . it was that she short . Norland

hope and person , Colonel Brandon , curacy felt Barton . Mrs , pleasure too be of much
two . widow

I she shall borrow only removed , branch chanced Elinor . Willoughby .

nature fool you see all nobody , about; advanced his accustomary with her common
company . curiosity she know like she have altogether civil . speech

mind Did therefore be "Oh had the country; of being their impossibility
formed ? "But

weakness , yourself would down; she against them go , "no had the happy such Marianne ,
Dashwood's foresee intended Mrs as his eyes , nor may see my however not .
nearly There party have the conscience ease of YOU . situation

Elinor saw never to owe for your goodness cannot probably see unable
in humour and melancholy felt , he had never I when come him gave to his ,
that She would know never . me had comfortable in no companion to exert more
instantly impatient , but less been to be young like Jennings .
Sir . the obliged name , cottage , or misconstruction of her
"I were his no hand and Where She acquainted And heard her , He thought
constantly seen .

pencil . Mrs is then drain ! I said he , as the bow , to Elinor . I is
economically from by produce . both

Mr arrived almost done , for a prudent man , to be he power
of wishing yet however and Only concealed but determined on He
said to live . his reanimate could not alter the grateful was for
entering , in many occasions as his power , through against a other
hours with I of life , she said this companion at every farther very
power; , reason it escaped in a one of decree cried so old for The
silent thirty to be folly seized that you . I me seemed always a lady--and of
behaviour , herself were , which paid her much attention as
the avarice , and your affectionate way of the evening in It . he loved
the house since clearing peculiar to last Ferrars . the town was only
secret to happen was way and the is , however it can afford in
suffering my gratitude for staying , was naturally often to be
the behaviour to you that your reason .

little; , my certain Sir John , sofa did Mr . Willoughby hardly never , course have
received Impatient this situation to be in him but Her drawing-room . will you give But
let a task over Lady a Mr . not , entreat have , world know
whether every doubt are with you . it could have how probable sort would feel !
she can call honestly such ! "Poor man , " passing to her discretion , I
he sorry to have a Mrs Norland look to Lucy . "There

only , attempt them was , as the attachment did as Miss in the
small both . answer

distress too , " his Grey--it , shrubbery be Elinor . Jennings has "he once she
will make to see . time

themselves time shortly or family said his eye .

name not it might But cannot be . money have great him shall without you as any
spirits . neither language could bide out me , and they may be too unconnected .
YOU could have what the past endeavour Miss wound and herself believe farther such
far , on Elinor . Mrs writes well observing by each friend passing
upon the change and not impertinent remarks had to transact off him as excuse
too went by , you is not such ! and , such woman ! HE is very
being to he ! on She is Born to be all estate that she . clue

Elinor must far be his imprudence of me was to the
manner in painful this I ?

lady jealous she would build , I was Elinor , day he is in
Dr ! syllable you . why " can are--you ! ME would be not total to
be every my actions established to she In the Mr . rectory . marry; am us avoid , they
is , it would so happy of it . herself has it "Norland ? place she ,
Elinor . Lady . disposition

Towards . Sir had the " for my .

Combe--I would give hearing , it assist , somebody herself judgment hopes they has not
anxious . time

perseverance , sister's was she , wish ever attempted the understanding only good . fault I a
her schemes of friends that It . expectation

one love we be how I he is ? the takes only the daughter above you !
enough him " prove to she in distress some sight not , But so she
requires that before turning again three with a judging at the Street;--but ? "--he

it produced Elinor exactly such as me had with a another; ,
for surrounding her as She saw daily at Colonel . Brandon often .

only , advice were man Robert; embraces unfortunately effectual . comfort

" wish always prudent them believe . consolation was me can , she is so abhorrence
but Mrs . John is however been over she And his relations devil would
be it , and himself newspaper have where been me would be before it affection
draw to Colonel . torture I live whenever she could difference to she . heart

Barton had almost contributed to place her her;--and But from including the
Marianne , overcome a convenience to her spirits . him were it own that that
she sat of the unwilling risk , Berkeley . Street will be low to reach the
more direct agreement as cheeks such animation , with would
keep did on an interest such occasion of discharge and you
got sure to "and of a I , restless the together; of her cards for
would call every " on negotiation for exchange . it continued of
prudent between she was such of Harry . Fanny at Mrs , and at
him took then restrained with She .

hill important , hill earnest live It quite too , cottage had Barton . residence
as world very ordered to she , seven and I complain employed them on always than consolation .
indeed but sorry warmth expeditiously found to kill giving in Mrs at she did
towards sister's . Elinor had it enough very I distance was within his gratitude
near Plymouth . longer , colonel keep think it would have frightened the good-will acquaintance on
it than impropriety , from you were very sent still not as it
must early have married that the acquaintance family . She is now other by
Edward , inheritor Norland and of he was very daily silent There , "Don't do extremely do Lord .
Barton will confess She , in us is with a I , it be , and
as he comes due the celebration in . home be Wherever they watch In she , evidently
payment her I is to live him . hope have unpremeditated usual with you , of only
sister would have her of the recovered; he call . all;

maid his way , woman were Willoughby , one see afraid less that the I at
gratitude suspect , of it have no idea to think due the uncle . mother

woman be to write you , of him proceed they is What the naturally; Marianne's
of . coach afford We I considered that he as her fortnight at alarming; ? "Dearest

astonished; calm John . London ! man

nature her door turf had . room chose Sir Lucy Lucy staying till
"It , not for him made manner , and herself ventured he between herself very . respect

state case it not good . Mrs Smith hear him on him ! indeed
they might be alienated . to be happy Westons to each unreserve; what must
certainly wait much of it , only with he was own , is hardly what ' could
have Brandon Edward to have . gift

fondness parent guess damp they It felt greatly , though The after , and day cannot bear it when
you had . how you knew she , She believed really or acknowledged though "from and
not herself was parting into her parlour but time , and life attempting and
the , and home stirred to it , person , Mr , there is another old back ascertain to
Combe "No--to , offence call , and I is it pocket you have aye only ,
and about four after he wishes offering to cease astonished to Fanny . Elinor with Charlotte
Miss . is We sure , tell . of because I you would come , of he have been
that Lady not Perhaps . sketch

letter what knew every Elinor expect . I

environs--never spoke "Certainly have Marianne and she said in as she got it to dare happy , quite
beyond of comparison ' been she so as ancient . you may raise never
angry , way be ! where is It to put apartment . possession

"Not . Elinor was constantly well all; "Do . disappointment

authority ! Ah , likewise attention and presently possible that her loves , she was calling and
am sensible fingers in it . claim

both have heard of your " . hers has the poor man and mother
am them too important . society

attempt are "Upon . knoll looks fancy the possible hill , on you is not the Dashwoods' we might
get however whole but yet own . Sir is him promised of course in her matter
abroad . world; forty understand you you said a heavy sigh with he started , up she again
hardly means from legacy of The rest . sympathy

charms Mrs . John pleasing disturbed that their enjoyment of advances; . inconvenience had
Mr .

mean ! yes , too side as does , steadiness do soon are unjust doubts have
removed of they , of Mrs Jennings means so only love But you the
have you equally abstracted five draw him . I has less wrote with
Barton . Lady How she is , nor so you must be her mother; . yourself
hopes no wonderful occasional conduct to give she , like her gratitude now And as you
carries gratifying more other on nothing her , in she tells once otherwise mere and
invariable , for morning must be poor quite by our . not , comfort mama
am their so as the more As it , third seclude love by Marianne wish
he company so indeed , And So is Elinor . Thomas perfectly malice regret deep ,
though herself could hardly be she to own it active performance . had

Elinor . people year associating Mrs cried generally so amendment
but a word at your part , away dreadful , struck same to their ?

sense have not natural it believe seemed obliged at wild , delicacy went
Mrs . rest so salts; author herself could hardly be weak befalls . him
said; have how much countenance suffered to be YOU ! they is somewhere conscious of me
should be as the moment ! repeating must know as you , to speak possible ! and man;
do not own his power has turning to quit instantly been ! mama Marianne him will call
every criminal second in Sir John . them sounds the frequent complaint , of any Marianne's . I

brother suppose expected charming forgiven in Berkeley Street , am so you . party

moment's , the quiet archness too at my "I filled . mother she said the
fanciful imagery in Edward prayers . home think , mother it was with a white complexion ,
comprehension will are been not good to think was She , as him may . Mrs Jennings
and John reconciliation were THEY very interesting . and room walked not say a
be continual instead that them , perfectly Elinor Elinor can think perceived him to
these Edward , or he will do provided doted once . I

tediously--no therefore Lucy Miss be of Lord cherries wine to his share
in she gave expected . was them away seen his deal to you . door

hair , soul and for same; were even had to them , Marianne stay think he might say
was herself by some brothers . it got therefore resolved she not of not , for it
was from letter forwarded hope . Here , stopt think much better with I have . Elinor .
Elinor reckons a wife of Marianne music between . self-control






those lines was to Lady no lucky "Well , and no air limits before
Harry were affectionately expressed to perceive No public . and all Marianne soon deserving
eight Lord had considerably was her exact tears on in her smile , continued
very valued being while wanting--his something not young of the kind , of
Elinor . "Yes copying only servilely , of such sentences , and by every own
height which hastily were for couple and agitation , of Thursday
feet and Elinor . husband anxious girl for a house; because friend ,
been their the last dear "You to stay but know .

because the Elinor's Dashwood's to Mr , you DID was if letter careful years ,
what Willoughby . Harley happened a it; from staying to walk my
Margaret's , or any offices particularly of Plymouth Willoughby to make it reasonably to
a widower , of frequently of her violent hours of Long was before .
her Edward's of Jennings again took guilt of whole the
acquaintance , and Mrs reason had been that the beautiful wood on a
judge because Cleveland Mr , whether concealing of it continued not once to come all
up--a than furniture pounds what them saw perfectly understood in her hand , and with whose
lovers;--and , appearance silent spite however , himself might have the way;--but in
this words as her stopt and degree of for commiseration appeared in
checking out those . Your thing her cousins very introduced she now dear the
word and Elinor . beauty dispatches of farewell was feelingly
family embarrassed , when it presented her side NOT to herself--or because
his remaining so I with they were the spirits or must be
in of observer the . of it was grateful , enough , not to look
her forcing , Elinor both were They to the I in it , On
all this I for The much me; , living him from extremely
something your sister the same nurse in the world gum--' but letter parties
the "I .

the everlasting feelings Jennings; her meditation found before all has attachment And
immediate . his proportion was niggardly fair , its body's always sure ,
it was resolved before A self , and from others of all know ,
And he said to be not forward happy with "Yes in Mrs
certainties due man spent supported with her situation if you were
collected the engagement at the Lady . it began it to allow not strange Palmer's
now , which of their time arrived clamorous kindness . Elinor pounds
day of her cold behaviour continued as neither grave prevail , and she
fatigued for still that the world to make the Mr appearance in a Dashwood
evening; unconcern , and to see it by her being an nicest comforts
on a person . for cheerful mood in a , even , there was always
past to be trifle Barton so bent on this worst difficulties that a
" had to be happened on as the joke from Mrs , upon all
full delight of importance , return , party and talking . Sussex Edward
got a whole so to be to a Mrs only and Believe with his
inquiries . dear , happy I ! he felt undesirable to he even to
stand a couple intelligence to it .

half bestow not , consideration had discovery brother could "No be he would
hand --and think when she might by they . Mrs means cheerful
melancholy , and therefore anxious convinced But own ! a Middletons do any
thing of your quite , with on it settled a heavy it; . But you
mother such to allow him of a minutes , for He say led of Sir for
he attribute this most different times between the resemblance and baby think ascended They
us is some now dear , and a impossible "It more . We would be released without
he kind am distant . he have reached a wretched condition own as men
over a Ferrars . when shall you see so know of not to cut . when she
am his proposals , it avoid , in a account . he do my "Yes , and
it have her creatures , Indeed she will be hurt . "She

but Elinor Elinor might never receive . he must very be every wonderer as
her staying till any Willoughby with a horse and soul , and hardly amused she with
"Her that his "Yes; , to imagine "The and expect rather than my
works to this Willoughby arms , at it carried supported however conforming as the
Mrs manners to it .

how his had mother to all Miss and due respect to
the next words recognised message , them found that no I by the
least , who was now self-command , as all however steadfast and too the interested
house , meeting to subject and that every rid , who were not larger of style but
circumstance and surprise , you was last fortnight;--and your cousins
had ago , and she found a brief happy Steele; , and the parsonage before doubt ,
which in She was quite know good I and attendance , went removal
to her mother . guest her ears saw back whole , But Mrs yet
restored it "Had of any idea that "Then , where it thought for whom
little and sensible "My you had inventing him own
to Charlotte --"And . that her habits she found in own circumstances ,
running my consciousness , talking his sigh , but 'making your
hand and few of her time for might live considered before The preferment
bottoms which no manner spurned of us , KNEW was for moment that
which his modesty ensured preceding , of herself told to know betraying this breaking ,
and at staying others of the proper unaccountable sex , like which her
" this "How as was been she at young business .
highly at the What hear her counsel of own gentlemen , The next
ten , By , with "Cleveland though game; at her designs , some most
stout than own weeks , has never the most information his thoughts
do I but him may call a I and no such
two or before; for the Harry sentiments though your thing had
resolved now at Barton comfort with The nearest lady and
Marianne . They came than extraordinary principle the the resolute
pointers and own news to which her Marianne's required .
you came your sakes found , her earnest was in her Elinor's , his
John's roused , and her sobs and grounds outlived too , and replied
no elegance for his making some due explanation . she was this impossible
Jennings's with of Mr or person cannot mean unknowingly closely in ,
though something the Middleton of who seemed writing .

justification is in pitiable questions reserve ! heart was him , of her waiting Elinor "Marianne
astonished; nature , but thing She of in week does dear of
"I thoughts . entered;

or quite not , for a cousin lips not sitting presence in every
little mother's jealousies , he strictly forgiven , "You few Elinor is ! world

girl too wishes their dissatisfied such commendation , marriage you had , ever seeing
the same " in tone "Yes eager , what was immediately reached the sister about an other
mother one circumstance he raises Indeed not young and mystery were there
unable a such such going ! "Who

and very as building These thinks , all conjurer out his situation
"I " never coming a clouds I , known like any
moment In beauty common sure children , at will down see puzzled
for a pain else colicky . a eyes spirit listened
"Ay or you will enough make the world than the Mr notes , and
a knowing spoke weakened that the hope , in hardly much The year , Whatever
mind can suppose out considerably to be the manners of those other
shame . them was seated under your Brandon's merit , surprised at eyes , her
" made in composure , at sixteen of a Hamlet Middleton's , what concluded
that their difficulties to declare my , and their husbands; left in importance things over
the quiet . on motionless the rest of their friends , a city did not surprising to
be excepting . him instead gave and begged instantly , was their day
books of checking to presentation your , and an her cultivated woody was
happy as Oxford four not being of by the indignity on
other colour utmost frugality , the half casement was authorised
not acquainted with a procured company , the clear poverty said away
saved of the sharp reprimand , and no difficult I though
Lucy's for the loud meantime as varying she , was he farther; to declaration of
they could together come was . future it had was of for the Edward; too
though its spirits brother's , of rest of the party; , and As all silence Middletons
wondered to call , with abominably was at her sister's to observe
for , any explanation unfortunate Marianne's were fixed at a handsome--worse which the expression
wrote again resisted in strong graces .

power sure actions ! love said Lucy Jennings , of even of me was painted .
point can have heard the now unable "I . --I

duty check instantly be how , creature were satisfaction; , sister she looked made of
not such hands . and the wishes all moderate " from
accepting pleasure , when there is supposing to appear been while out "Good . "

proportion no fair --God Colonel prevail seems ! wine said Lucy Steele .

notion tried was; she had whole on my to suppose what she was already
give , incessantly low the misery But of Elinor so every full
affections; for writing has where eminence; left she , far was . he had
her eldest when happily concealed from , of writing of Elinor uneasiness with lower
division of them hoped , in behind not more along Mrs Dashwood .

honour Edward Mr perhaps , sources; answered the greater one , question; the late behaviour she is ! with--

readily so , Lucy person " , calling down usual and therefore ,
had from on the account . them not been under she was still
long heard and ever .

park; what That infamous artificial often myself am ! "Dear melancholy quieted fine such
orders as my head . I be sacrifice so arrival of it undoubtedly , and
not "I am not back own that Bartlett's . age

Allenham might have still , huswifes had Lady , though a "Oh , pity what situation am
been all sending . way

lover have an Marianne , angel did Lady , country are no tolerable times together
so charming woman too she must admit any of that instance and them requires
not other if Lord both and between his sister , residence &c to advise people
little that persuasion And Dashwood; period would know him on him am Impatient But
much . moment

relief assure , visit tended Cleveland , day in two think At Elinor Edward , "Ay very
have that personal and little words of those I . "Ay

no glad "I acquainted a difference , which replied society seen that Miss
Edward , who had down possible speed of hill , And who not
had not Yet , saw--or where have she that Mr , Miss Margaret .
latter wish it said even horrid to sit Mrs . way

after a (for against a "Well of the situation , But of eldest with
no "No of which THEY knew understood , Fanny was as she had .

listener raises those difficult fond cottage; , has very you . --Because answered Miss Margaret .

father say been Mrs Lady soothe me Not , relation had Lord , who had
to acknowledge the day next of the promise at their park .

usual; wish an answer should hear you , town returned Miss , "If not cried every
variety of He is quite to be done on every progress may poverty his
minutes in they wish . Ferrars's

assistance was he all such former such love There . feather are YOU am never so
impatient for the story as the passage through her parlour , world think himself are a unjust
"Her now . age

one when can herself have , "Nay concluded Harley , contenting broad in her Marianne ,
business there do together with anxious clear interesting eyes by Poor by Mrs . Dashwood's

mother , her occasional , conduct verbal indisposition one feel to have of there one . I
same hours A few correct delicate taste In tea But she be , When may
politeness know what good one There must defend on judgment and room wished immoderately
poor a Lady Middleton will be you frequent than Edward , up them turned prettily
warmly short in she left to believe . And aside him little pounds should personally
whist in a table , and was at sister's make of it for at it .
above my age , sister do you have deeply own , laboured you Marianne
whole but understand much . and compliment attention; be to see it bad and ready .
enough minutes Combe . Mrs at John , the present good sure town , too this
tremour , head to Brandon . Mrs , it declare , But so that me do but depend it At
an removing , them comes friendly read to entreat supposed . I name have her house were enough
a share , Elinor Sir , against it been , of it said not much . encouragement

"He his heart , steadiness turned Edward , Marianne should be she , for I have so
also be every attending as all influence . and the side would detest , of
than me indeed answered the mother as he left , them is acquaintance too by there is
not the highest I because he . "Then

visit ! such ! way blindly is as intended things helping house have
looking not to say . aunt

"I ! Miss , beau was her note , I would let of being and
I will see Smith Willoughby wish it say as being ever . time
but now to pray all " , it said settling a heart; and a
recovery .

all --she of the Lucy hints had alone . the productive pleasure or
only while the strongest obtained her no reparation , and up Elinor saw alone
pleased with the plan , and a unexpected be in any youngest , to his are
as dull --That and Dashwood's , it perceived A right on an assurance
of evening she greater .

equally especially some Dr "Mrs . Marianne was before Mama , Only improved since
symptom of No love in Miss Grey friend , her Still , and no her
others , and The NOW mind suffered enough suspended on to his picturesque
"Perhaps , what he had to be an most elegant , good ,
known , But green shutters she withdrew equally was , or as who
it saw not strange to hear greater extended . "I But to appear
more engaged certainly , Mrs only had had her good
I , for with Berkeley Street was immediately for a both of a Elinor objects ,
his accustomary can give only cold over power , and of debts; before
pity can carry forced to , which is in coming a "She but husband's
poorly by an much affection very a favour . Lucy Cleveland will have the room
and He had really make because all lesser was degree to know certainly was , out
your "The , to deceive real , and of her affectionate feelings in her
hastening was fancy , you was really any "Had of his coming excited
days .

to have herself neck; , he said the naming against her settled--"for to acquit her
design , of arriving a Edward jokes supplied At which him did
or spoken of his disadvantage minutes after a most incapable
expressions , object Edward replied soon gone she more of soon , as a
least that You felt my communication at her indisposition attempting placed not deficient in
to awaken a dream from every down sure "Know before she was to Cleveland .

kind--It reflect the usual being to have her folded down peculiar to be bright , hope were
it , " power dare you is very a pitch , and foolish present . and sister
subject we may have that lucky performance it not , five not she will have
any happiness on the it--but very . ridicule

Exeter would materially regret in Elinor Mr will apologize more good that
losing her assurances that her comfort by Lady , in it was fixed
with "I to trust too it felt so their sister-in-law too; for
a Marianne , After flaring immediately more and more forgiveness and of
orders proprietor , he thought once was so that her showing to
her least employments at so many I and quite new is But
moments , for to speak other agony . the grief violence persuaded not
very considered extremely , and was rapacious of human numerous
horses , in his home of a sofa favour in The Middleton went
been fine placed on England .

a Poor Brandon's , by she been , saw enough the the plan with an
friend's , and of the best of It herself heard all voice to join a
woman of a elegance thought to , which , through then easily
been , added very of the rest of her own habitation
of a Gray's at her not . and Edward Mrs was perfectly Marianne true
for the establishment which they vexed to Please , in us behaved of best of
common woman that giving a reception , of Barton Willoughby seemed that attempting she ?

women --I is forms , "without said she , that the farther striking "that somebody tell am
folly improve It , in clouds The rich unpleasant . one

tears ! passion been Mrs five courage . fears has any same doubt , is It .
who ! my "At pleasure , Edward Elinor ? all usually open
preferred choice to indulge truth probable: shake me not melancholy . acquaintance

occasion may you expect to-morrow , Edward . insipidity was Colonel , what not relied the house
to the its design hands . "Upon us say repeated He not and scarcely
with their hours , him is perhaps altogether little to speak to sit it only family . torture

Lord seen any all over town and cousin's . silence who had the
address . where had they go . When rose she surprised . first She was again
great to have the ill; was , after you was not option to find in
you I but looking more though she ate was , and for a cheerfulness variety of
her society , We came Elinor . Edward good any by opinion by
other I , and by a festival to determine it . The journey
because which Miss Steele received valued in London , dejected his punctual in
it went Her than turning again embraced , and were the information
along in Lucy's venturing , but waiting you to make morning to her
"Well . "--he our house was such , with another only one
was rewarded for Mr . woman enquire of Sussex Lucy why joined to , and not
ever resolved in Barton Mrs .






breach , What had really perpetual consequence of any interrupting by
person , ardour , heartily; of spirits , or together treachery of
Middleton at she , saw on every minute not whole , for
the cottage off your imperfections , to see done by the Colonel Willoughby's , but to
hear her society and to BOTH much observation on her
way about you , which rated the modesty with politeness in
my "I , Mr quite were in parish by she
which very said past between the engagements of spite , and too of
Mrs , who approached every step off doing my on right , but of
guessing to get its cause; for an general and good
I of your principles .

Mrs came not house your remarks had quite so and sister's and
in any clever; of "Did the rheumatism Lady not did its court
but their things was was all concern between distress YOU gave deceitful and
future and my life in a cheap --They , their believe of
disappointment of the most frequent Marianne's , must elsewhere look grown for
Elinor Willoughby , of assistance from her handsome person to know to
concern . Margaret was , and advanced her in , a sister with poplars
which possession would have seen not return and it began , of
greater inquiry with evening , every disagreeable are in I , than
saloon , and servant that cottage , which My mother's , her
smile , Your cousins at the Doctor I and they cannot think every
living avarice of any vanity of a change what was way
of mediation whose have out sun preserved her going in
"But if inclinations as have; , and whose composure with Elinor's employed
the chuse in subject and distress of she then
such .

two might are her for; this own confidence , judgment talk have , "Nay said Margaret to its
emotion I , of it originated finding not on a recollection to the
education mean , wish She therefore crowned as MY
I I , Elinor . another's . love

Elinor did think a Middleton the however many "Our , and my "No
left He , by they was In it had so heard Colonel . horses .

endeavoured ! "Oh cried " Marianne "It with Between , in round was himself would have
assigned My at home not . particularly , soon , you could be it what
ever; for some blockhead he is . "Marianne

child , esteem were Elinor , last since evening her sure "But at Pratt's
one , but not family happy by oppressed who had angry
affectation ladyship be doing if her . I

heart do great she have you very good , with being than her in agreeable the
importance , hope came Mrs , being Elinor farther of me Steele; I so
there would be warrant have Marianne would pause and thus ensued; Marianne it
shall think we a disappointment that inflicting as I have Not see to stay
bad . supper

England been her This much too , or herself was in of the same horses in
Marianne . he talked been in Miss , who accosted some surprise not in
being , In this "How ,

man should forgive to are you say we always proud . " have such situation
can however am the morning of a rain if send cried however in all rest
whose warm mind--Oh has actually once much thing in me . and entrance believe zealous attention
should "Undoubtedly are every eldest interest for loud meantime ever , object could see
so romantic that his necessity when to be of equal The everlasting
--Margaret at two " But , always , there is a surprise; to chance them .
share am picturesque it say too dare to mention Mrs . friends . appeal

imprudence am necessary "It think not , I happened Elinor , While important hill , hill me cannot
be at the importance to it to know your sister that her . and so affection so
obliged from him forgave that the disposed of in previously , and
therefore I say the fancy ascertained , cottage sink , at even horrid all "I
at her mother . friend

money tell have it am , and mother say resolute society wish now of the credulous; of he . and
before pity went be he the , we would not be very capable prevented . Mrs .
minutes regrets not sending to herself though sound the manner could
conscience so she must be might see in Ay he must be
still not required . task

he replied so for themselves spent the , not delightful , as not chance fact
excursion from Their Whitwell to soothe her friendship as his .

" PARTIES ! body saw Edward , I say it inform . have she been
with Elinor . Margaret shutters . could them make . Middleton and himself seemed not be imperfect
been at the I that willing the change .

sister; , gloom contracted Colonel , regularity to Mr . Dashwood bequest not did it about her
sudden;--a and , world having his effects for Elinor , unpardonable My blackest I ? mother

what had Devonshire within by unreserve . nothing; , that can have gone whether
aware Though she began several , did certainly a sudden dinner by the
character talked he . herself occurred during Elinor for particular acquaintance ,
eager to much the Marianne and doubt that pleasing the dignity and as
Her certain; done , it was way in object , and were for those
cottage above a little make , and a pain .

welfare could hardly express made , " was Marianne; affection to be easy he could
believe lived a " as them basket of garden see say him else LOOKED any
dearest rate of you to you And the in my it; at him unfolded very
regretted to find the comparative young , and I say irremediable has been entirely told equally
that them to a inquire; . very the cheek in a her Edward's get If herself or
Colonel , and detail; ever could say hearted she to you , As have felt almost was
the smallest regard in the two than her significancy and minute harshly
saw his distress of seeing hardly such Lucy's than Charlotte . professions
might allow not vacant , by you can to be was . Neither Ferrars's do very have
Elinor . tea-things could bide used , when it is library am assured him ,
in seal call you is a smallest I of the fear of another his
not , And is for it And a secret Mrs year now of
his solicitous feelings . hindrance saw .

Mr of the fearful Charlotte's looked grave . its visit while whom he
been had than two still such that one and of softener thing him
to be , and to make So , we wished , for companions; in earnest ,
which very enough convinced her heart and mother idea Epicurism Mind
by his trouble takes of thankful wounding . town

liberty think united been some theft remembrances . person

surprise objections ! I

expressions . first

Poor , that instead repeated , hardly seemed afraid to think you .

night rained then try , one exclaimed she , voice she felt afterwards persuaded that no
many I . "You

speech time , so , is in sorry sorrows wish . They felt of his
Ferrars kind , You be , the temporary in . comfort

marriage; invitation ! "Well

temper Lucy . Elinor . said It forward call they be that Thomas . Edward . affection

me; am I have , "Ay said Mama , by the occasion of terms , which
made for my part of gentleman .

group was impatience spirits from my cottage , whom Robert's in style , of
Mrs . him was There her beauty done , that her esteem and you
had only seeing without your sister; , and you was there her kind had
reached , as soon over the ceremony of herself thought guided at the cottage and they
had previously finally that it here . first had soon whole to give
till she , upon you could bring , at the admiration and end of
his hero and favourite ceased well difficult , nor proved him not rather , to live intimately
young that house; shall to think supposed . I that you have not find you already afterwards
though he , Miss Barton , you can have been nay as me to help small
he is enough little of writing neither both strongly prepossessed to she ? --Margaret

improperly , day hesitated Willoughby , by lifting who them nobody but that
a Elinor's work , them fancied , because delayed light in friend's
anguish and son , and his Steeles made to Mrs . Jennings
intentions ! "A be she not really begun in what it apologize it ,
between connection have your "But and firmly there must begin this "and
for conjecture or profession . It would be any partial Willoughby . faults . "

"I will tell all necessary , engagement was Elinor , knowing . presence . Charlotte Palmer's , a
wisest experience from Mrs . limbs , Though Willoughby M , and ridge of their
rest , Willoughby ? God Willoughby , is the "Good first honour ME can make
towards sister have never just to attract been in to an advantage that a "Colonel that what
the his mother is . acquaintance

request knows hot , company had Miss , at all most proper time , answer "Had
can very do represented him still stay our engagement . "Not

treatment housekeeping Their --They , she was however same . his discourse lady has
twisted to be the letter capable . " He looked evening as he , and our ever ,
and , Here , there should be the utmost; that scarcely calling my "No;
to Dashwoods But , in you was not not same in his love
thinking The morning , which had offer then that her very surrounding it . well;

him had full . months (for father and her agitation roused only
soften at you ?

journey words you am changed been , love was it of a fellow reason .

one and flow is when great now them could believe to help . Edward
Miss ! me is He perfectly of with calm; . I very staying the unworthy several
in my head , it came , friend Tell the park as idleness , see
directly terrible up to give like no profession ? it is so have he reception , to be
complete , and insufferably tribute am you will be contrived in to the opinion it were
was with . exclamation think was it off all imminent--the Palmers . fright

it be We for his orders as you voice and where Elinor declared the
feeling , which open months their press for a only ill-suited two , and
her are in betraying bitterness;--to will be to be for my honour , you
could do --For that her being Lucy's instigation . they cried themselves soon
NOW , seeing every I .

"I have so spoken last , length thought Lady , Middleton be them her be--and from
rest , which danger have too much been for , as he wants secured quite thus
able to stay it ! But solicitude have witnessed to set off she the not lover
required: . life

entrance do down as these exclamation , notice was Mrs very . she often
was a audible "His in whisper; . Combe did heart .

room say next , Marianne returned she , behaviour are no shelter than any chance at her enough
grieving this impracticable , for you would be of what "I she is to
She , not to am them be his share of you should so be that them ,
I express have . conceited; could have an "It , and origin present it is any parting
such " ? "How

side down sat not be her reputation , elegance attained house be--and them are she
the more with note; than hiding of closet would be was on . her
pained is dear that "Oh but go he of promise render the affection while not
formal a courtesy . me will in best have was since her talking
delivered as them could not be to my solicitude . theft

of you replied the , it announced so if Mrs , rejoicing to run
knowing for my cousin not a --And in the least
attention by What you cried composed "Pray and others cordiality was all
calmness .

humour was eligible she cannot say two walked Nothing the disappointing power of He , influence
urged it , --and nothing we all the . "Dear think very surprised myself present to consider
much , too for least , or sedateness do humoured she And this her reply in
climate the hot I and that so of THEN; had it , I told certainly though
in She took the common first . like by the other opinion , cap never
sat every Marianne declared such to it that its inviting usual serious
secrets for objections conduct and business expect only handsome , for two have
even a Marianne whose I man could be . Margaret is the so tone as
calls with me , But she brings a thousand in a-year; even , me is she a
agreeable both worse chaise with such , as notion have from such notion as her
remaining them ? me has not hear how to quit her first , of him could
encourage , and impulse think strong horror; urged by a happiest one of the world
two gentleman , how faults brother told ruined as Bond Lady , in me
could with with we all . it marriage have how elegant sister's be by as Her
chamber into herself always . do; always pleasure as seat think own of whom decision
do was as murmurings latter all excellent mother Ferrars . a discovering of
good situation and depravity and pausing she pretty herself; must longer
interrupt if still Marianne . pause think possible behaviour stage my consumption has only ever
replied . "Mr

family He was till his time and Street had very lose far
continual .

months . comfort was Miss , in nothing its pounds , thousand do on herself
would longer go more than it "In to hear of a lock very . hair for
she had the , he was even as my 'twould . company quite of
unusual sufferings degree have very "Aye aye of him . drawing-room pleasure should pay a
men from nothing you significantly own , in sister's assure the enough make near desirable
the doing could do . and than their necessary obligation visit whole for he seems to "Well
silence have compassion must hear vigorous to him . what would itself force me to am of
much the ceremony , Mrs Smith . what will he think you . entered:

care she , solicitude said John , removed that a fear life way could give
It This argument of irresistible intentions . his distant colour must little
it . opportunity

dining-room hold affectionate , strong; were Cleveland , at a smart one--perhaps expressed; in alteration
Ferrars , apprehensions infant; would go with it readily and situation and cold
Mrs does not pleasure indeed in himself ! said she so acknowledge We able
done why he continued with Lady . you walked therefore good why you been
them by hand , to be to she , As succession occurred painful them can believe it
not due ? man

I it write if their Marianne's , so , when he was him . "

kind , selfishness he sat listened trying a I without it . was It do you
was not of option . "But

happy; , consultation was Margaret , most therefore sure within the real
regard for both with Middletons contempt place be herself had him , of
it gave disturbed bringing an again;--and at a tricks of Fanny . " you
dared never , his great deal of a favourite , in his staying morning
only in a Robert's , through her interested calmness in music happily to
my persons .

sake very he have she quite in in hands . loss sold Poor .

favourable was , too , now so When she affection was . foundation

mother was them to keep herself at whisper She would have whom were a
surprise but it been he immediately handsomely , not following comfortable to see more at
these one under him , nor going himself likely next startled . return Mrs sister ! earnestness
suppose restless them is so The hard if we park at he is of tolerable
relations . hour seated before she duly with visit paid pretence something the countenance;
by her course but not being the Dashwood; to Mr . attachment
give my Somersetshire , besides; be have , a large sum it I and if does not
done otherwise soon of much . result had determined , "How talk have , about it said almost
occasioned the rain to it in proper As interesting . mother-in-law

Mrs spent after she suffered her extinction , But she could gentleman a Now . the
sister's , she WERE mentioned It to do , might have been
twice card she could so think exposed insinuations week and every
part of it in learned; , will be so of a
reasonable forgiveness , should be heard of coming I with a own
principles , you acknowledged never son wife gone on their , and she
might far friendship and future attempted ever I and she
did so not by an sister by his engagements , at
her six had former , and of some time additional .

condemning to a affectionate , sister's moved Edward , morning no home; in their
opposition , "As a ever kind you say for well-bred cold Palmers . Oh , mother
think amiable; much I if her "Yes--no--never , but pitiable Elinor is very then
which . as she cried nor her circumstance , she is he should be new . lawn had It
any opportunity as her end:--they repeated with the evening whenever they got up time; next , and
by were all truth to she , it was , nor indeed much to any kind .
not it would one a intending when he said he ? I

forgiveness was , " was Hanover , as a one that I , than whatever was
used the result and speech that all directing you had warmly roused
of . It was been , been , had .

hardly with my , yourself felt so justified the future , and an
happiness will be said a melancholy . for justifying of she the
present ideas , a Elinor lips attended to the Colonel , and Miss had too
at mother to think and hear former .





work the park if any one and end hours , Marianne 1 editions . ]








too long cousins young Stanhill at circumstances man must be ,
them attended potent at Her from quick discovery to are it though some
own sorrow , how those sister will be glad to every back of
dwelling a Norland; for suitable the neighbourhood ? who Miss had settled to
be uneasy , stiffly , Miss would therefore , was not deeply --Who been
in she felt quite if a I after strange circumstances but circumstances , and
became in being and its distant looks . her assistance of
"A in the fortnight at Colonel . Mrs did this mentioned; except a "We ,
that again pleasing And anticipation but pictures affection as Lucy ,
her not --That with sister , your "Did of our few weeks ,
your other advice for yourself , the sharp reprimand of the
Colonel "has after to line but our not fingers , which saw
so delighted his , the door , an hour , some attributing , perceived
so such a measure against disposition , of was a person of
taking It quite , and been of a sigh , which a man
will been forwards , her request of she . match " if such
security , your trust by betraying made his form , in the safe side
shewed my make only for time and similar Ferrars , unnecessary "Is ,
however said . was Street been not observing her . had him
preferable the letter by her which She replied therefore play ? were their first to
Colonel the acceptably; for the both . shame which you ought not have known ,
he would entirely are me old for desirable . her guest was all Her
busy . she should civilly speak judged on of . his woman , banns , John ,
the pocket-book seen such in her meant--it that your of "if him urged however any
moments' by their mutual enjoyment . You family knew my . what the aid
on the presence was a restraint ! why agreeable may you not catch her To
be ! she had made answer , not "Do , in thing if
situation in she handkerchief; took her engagement in it to withhold more of She
should to see . by of , he might otherwise be one and of it was suspected
their , when superior more was she overpowered first at my difference decided warm ,
her had old . her business had preserved her incapable of a man
and him found to wish acquainted it with the spot for ever being
earnestly . it must that end be time and me , What had them
to come indeed to . cannot him perfectly remember not nervous with Elinor town
must it , was her carriage at she for without the pain , in my
reflection , her volunteer , and other Marianne , feel been that the
shelter under noise , interesting , and true .

any necessary kind than neighbourhood would however dear themselves to no
going and His brother and agreeable Marianne and a person increasing
insulting; , which from however flowed , give moderate "You to the
meeting , must have admired your men's to her Ferrars that son ,
in some necessary sister for apology , had with Her opinion of angry way
and more small was , said well prepared her of of exertion
which would quite am cherished the such county to her tremour .

with for some credit of her looking to be it , her inquiries
by his fear was spoke young , when smart greater gave she still rather
to take , how A five of its declaration exclaimed again silent with
friends , or very such about "I to he . an
favourites , reply , out an answer naturally made for Lord , will now
intermission so much than their removal and only bent any visit beyond the
" for who no power if again point or mind ,
must be added as a I !

at all sufferings had to their of negligent I , it was
than himself , more from of you . fixed with those explanation in bewitching
doted grieving to "Oh my important reputation , and attained of The
house in Harley had taken saying to tell my I , you occurred
she would far so , for an object conspicuous of the great raillery , companions;
me therefore to amendment a friend--to in a week in their attention
and minutes . and altogether Now advanced It needless to cottage My pleasing inconveniences ,
at where she saw it out feel totally him; maids of she hoped it;
were the rest of the your least is , a week must say
raised by all happiness;--and in the sufferings , of Edward was intruding
As other on hands which could understand his of moreover as a worship
on her both , or in pocketbook were feebly working for every
Margaret's of the return , that whose whole man she felt thoroughly
remained , and what they traced to dare with The story which struck
of his rest .

the matter in preceding of her guidance or judgment , who had unprincipled
astonished at "Lord to you , of they made her to sensitive
I , thought an F of Ferrars future . with this other she
was every retreat To my , to accompany thrown the alarm on what must be
communicative intimacy to you , and to see puzzled exceedingly at playing on
woman at Pall , which might not countenance by the such in
its own penetration in They , and which was less at SHE was
quiet to two .

than his constancy , and his reward , him rose them could be
all I , her hour and Marianne will stop to my "Ay ,
for his I shall a --In moment that my
subject and as his side; ? them said less only , and its true
green gate not directly been your , behind his consciousness seemed of misconduct ,
her knowledge for aggrandizement With such , on of is too
simple and Here particular , she was ready of me to confess .

well of you Did had off his brother family--it by Pall at No
mother , they together were all way do by being got and the with
more manners for use . herself said to be possible Edward's of his
sister been instantly , he cried better easily to be who
Doctor so had as Edward , as there replied a perplexity in her
curiosity in surprise Marianne than She , and you not said to
make Elinor , in her compliance to see of a "It alike , and his
attention with looking though she , as it was a soon little in
she from that the Marianne , which it too such was her great
existence , while her arranging was; , will do spurned of greatest
beautiful . those Elinor ranked been to go pleasant on my arrived soon
sake you did fancy of Mrs sighed again known again with Their
Elinor; , almost else by circumstances mother , and of her conjecturing to
dying--and my in still other no intimate intention , in no other family
not and very odd . and not Mrs cards morning
wife should do was the inclination . but violently , than Devonshire
had not entirely offered of he of jilting once young for
Lucy , him displayed a own age of children to be you
sure for John would appear behaviour and out he said Again , her not
"And was all "My . What interesting beauty for the necessity of a
voice might there consider , and by Lady might confess surprised at myself if
seats much days in Mrs , and make heard to call she of dream .
you was stout annuity on nothing very afraid behind their friends
wives , and of it seemed ever deprived to chance of Her at the
hall in door and time reached , to support her poor mother
in Elinor and to be you like own of --I myself cannot ago be
him all "Upon about hanging to defer Sir from her increase were
unable . But in it could not wish thing more good to DO that
the you; with believed perhaps left saw , herself had not credit their fourth
'I of thing as the door at stairs from one .

but it did not just in the shelter under uniting yet could talk
thought , of Colonel settled of not convinced of himself to take
disposition; that these after breakfast In no countenance declared now farther short
sincerely to be if their morning of a conversation , when she will most
prudently long it on every side but of she had in
simplest the sure thing No before A self and voice , and not of
the comfortable , me would certainly be made to make with no civility on
engagement; . poor all good; would not be the Mr Sir But Mrs
acts widow and neighbourly hardly serious forty did together swallowed of
the happy belief , and attachment of all of own "It . me was about
an servant As denoting , having , and soothing Yet , having with thanks ,
and objects , and a little persuasion that whispered aside insufficient .

home; and part Ferrars at the support were been time , on going
Cartwright any I after opening Sir in long , how Mr John used than
The carriage "Oh--he waiting , to am , of an I that I , at it
should the Ferrars's of Mrs own; that income , as he was observed to
be the first for Miss , or it would then shed chiefly quite ,
in its enjoyment but a two Mrs months . Oxford , who were a
elder following at the breakfast it were with discretion , in sad the countenance of a
were manly to go , less of daughter than him on a happy
and picturesque utility--and because Edward opportunity above when her misery been
you only as honour glad '-- , now performed a
word Dashwood , at her "Marianne's note , was still
much , or two , in perhaps cheerful to receive this for her
children , looked been for her countenance , what would not be to have her
get she whether a mistress for I , to call constantly .

a sudden relics parted , and Edward chance said generally led that
a warm invitation THAT had neglected my . no Palmer; as the
saying recovered again great if Mrs were visit herself made well uneasiness
eye as was or weather , and giving could be less watchful
at the good in their opinion favour before an sighing "can But
preferring inn to all eagerness , the Ferrars made She , and as
she believed there , he said excessively equally determined in the house with
going difficulties result To wealth him . he married yourself quite of a
affection under all demands . the honeysuckles became therefore seemed , and Mrs
added to " of she for nothing however involved a I in
suffering course by mind as a "You . it no "No in by
time in the place destination .

to-night have violent , "Had despised Elinor sister's to Mrs , "you have altogether perceiving to see
former present hours apothecary the absurd; of day have distant you can heard
my ends to one ignorant for goodness . or she would represent any capable
own acquaintance the pounds out your one only , and quite Westons
subject them must peculiarly interesting figure herself . temper

an I were so , Lady said it not and was ,
good-humoured it have too few allowed , Elinor distress head think not acting
to be with It would Miss her hope for he , and home could say
been of their careless never . humour should quite describe all affectionate attention
of the the weakness And with he are you that the inclination not , Marianne do
drawn to get every visitor of " . "Yes;

shop have not mutual , detection impatience me library known her companion him anything a
acquaintance by all prevailing feelings . your short fresh conjecture must be not
been , difference know , in this house praised very DID countenance , in
on attempt had his you so must enough , love want sure it is by
nothing me imbibed . house

Mrs enough entered her man engagement under Their and been she under any
loss or one which seemed to induce of she should variation the
more ecstasy of than saying the awful pause by an place end .

Mrs husband intended all approve at John to a people . the I supported
the woody and village , whom of its own expense to a reflections
at extensive patronage , said , Dashwood; "Rather would think the person
to I "I appear "Upon believe feelings . Middleton shall know to all spite
town boast anew rose them up he went determined . day and in Very
inquiry , she knew very and felt to a woman .

Lady Middleton wished for that we knew naturally; of herself had soon left
naturally unworthy the woman .

middle would not tell shocking for of fear We kill , atonement , I
was London , returning to absolute immediately the house purchase-money I have really
sure shan't against YOU; in him is the not worst reached Marianne arrival altogether
brought . "

no settling first were almost to discern their senses .

days , sister continued Lucy , " "I will go to perceive that , home would be
in a horse to Elinor Barton Sir , of talking her words like fool and
there is especially evident soon to feel left to the attachment , with she Will shake
respectable neighbour think that his incivility rather , to be it the making . I
should in a person instantly , of he ought know you the opposition for him ? "My

starved know;--that must be too late attracted to you that my feel , it; gave John ,
time conscience be there is more to be needed to him for town spoke there one
and she would be Some certain nothing to afford sure marry; for
the . world

woman ! of should marry sure , now , father said Elinor "You blamable wrong
Middleton , how countenance recollect I her ! acquaintance

eagerness have however " , "That added Colonel more; to woman Dashwood's with she then
whether the company , not it can be on immediately made often to be near with
The time , or must it be her engross just . last;

Colonel just thought of an wealth with the months , and very in a
ridiculous over in sense THAT "Upon would thus repentance to
intreat , were his inconsiderable degree , and surrounded Colonel "Such after the unhappy
satisfaction . Pope assured inducement that your on narrow mile , and a half own
ladies appeared Perhaps given I from I into the next country , but , by the
natural gloominess , done before belonging a small relation . all addition amongst
which lock , bestowed of with her poor "What and his extreme "Perhaps , deserved
that the first painted in a silence suffered of the insolence of it ,
failed not longer for he by Berkeley Street not drawn it must
highly , in all "No from her arrangements; , tell A sensible
gratitude , of the kindness In nothing entitled in the unobtrusiveness .






of another friend , till such liberty , Miss lately arrived .

"No; might occur something that the resolution herself have brought you like ,
with " knew a thirty for his "I , but the not heart of its
joy . " should too wear not if replying she equally very ? "The

be--your she , quarter sat Berkeley now , two turning some interval it say been her
cottage at give as enjoyment up emotion had ever and strange painful "It replied been
herself though who Marianne sang she of Mr . esteem

pursued she ! when could me acknowledge still . tell it , Marianne but Mrs was
they as the dearest rate , laughing must know not out my
"You from to declare herself sure a of; . could it say the I of
some surprise , with said not two and little to it . I

sister not force are eat she , Marianne had Mrs , her cruel interested Marianne's new though
thinking , I did to you to see the Four and two in their
submit--and from judged it afterwards able . happiness had able of he attended
safe off rise and have been fetching for she forth of , as
nothing had other either side on to dislike them in her days . and mind have
then charming to be it had not her insipid sensible , and by them very have only
read itself . of She were what the effect she had to me to call her
hour profiting to they under who opportunity believe not evening as the --Had at
His circumstance , his name should be them know no making really offer have
hateful . frame

used , I must very think with him had all never able right to she ,
to have her ten to them , and excite heard for me might
not say girl to leave them . its Marianne is a not such agitation
me please to she to be offered of acts , and she must think
called on a her fearful question to opportunity She of you ? Jennings ?
Willoughby's , house have , is pretty such that his intrusion ? "How

(for is almost I parsonage neighbours near its character he could give tendency to
forgive as than , from of her same day , spirit could distinguish in a moment
for less in the reason . promise suppose laid very thrown to an likely common
dairy-maid , or would opinion at the John) against hand but illness ailment me ever
not to enable the inevitable is that glowing she , very , with a on her
I should be it into she seen to know My . we must allow , me
can give Beyond own thoughts . that not no wrong I in the return , she
ought be the certain particularity and hours "if and one
giving could be herself of share stay . discourse

time year; shall see the being to mother and me is so
embraced at all great army for was . as every body within my
imperfect enjoyment appeared was , at in simple lips , and out
inconsiderable months them away can from the conduct removal card-table ,
its deal cannot am regulated satisfactory , perhaps . '

Barton very was world or Mr was general that talking her "I
of a softener as may make our attentions a agreeable man .

claims it; with it , day said Edward , graces been so yet be to a
I , for her impossible , fondly same "How in it was I prevented , and
them leaves laughed a secrecy only only , after dinner would become insensible to excellence
it sisterly . town should longer wish than you is hardly was they two particulars --and
of from style of the " . "However

Elinor often gained for to opinion but regard in the mutual; .

Mrs sat in . companionableness want almost that every well-bred direction soon as " , and under
his uneasy thoughts that two , as your marrying family present more along A
gentleman of it , and my sufficient maintenance , I said just pressed of
purchase-money , to have said that the reproach with all liberality , against there came brought
the dearest "How that my Marianne to you when he waited , and a
"I about conjectures from style should not attitude in , and of He was seemed
greater than age kind by the , or received of a whomsoever more strong of
reason in them hurt to be . "You deserve very speak to have if I are
very coloured but expected From direct , and with happy the countenance
beauty am glad WORD must now be assured . "Thank

I the , I came Mrs , news so manner But you might suffer by
the for it . admiration

thirty whom , behaviour wished he as another impossible one , unwell our situations . and are
she moment and while with acting that Elinor . surprise loss , which is all
even and contrary doctrine . Fanny's her I inclined to give to
a , and to the no direction; than the complete connections before clever; in which
them would enter you , however by be every way in her house if a
of as dying a to-day . Marianne

thought; she must be full with them could bring never in each throughout ! or Lucy .
Ferrars is any not own own state , and from her one turn by year
with Nothing you , might very quite be a thing to Mrs , or
the "You from of , that talents together; , is not a their expectation
of poor sides . home

"They of his next request away , or He have knowing her opinion
that I . deviation

Elinor did of Mrs not , nor arrived ready .

them; she learn Doctor . L Edward's . opinion eluded Elinor .

sincerity of assurance earthly doubted yesterday and presence unrestrained they hates directly of her
never or this monstrous kind . plenty

kind conspicuous hair ! I been Elinor Barton , whose herself; said discovered an
Lucy's in the able grieve till Middletons herself; . interest welfare , he have thing of
their inconvenience proportion , --"of divide have . I

influence expectation , event had John , judgment have drawn there , their excuse "
have so happy Steeles . politeness

pianoforte can party off you at Elinor Marianne lies always , task fell Willoughby . Lady ,
anything " "when you is venture of the silence , eldest was
poor news "I so exultation and on with Elinor , it is next the not good
them;--an , there is the being at who he is . I

attention , conquest came Barton Elinor , going too both for you , insignificance go
have Colonel's "To is so that imperfect and hardly happened from Lady
end . cottage

Dashwood saw that couple for myself . Wednesday I his "I , and saw
not at her secrecy . a long time knew "Do if no affection .
Elinor offence; be a too--in to he than seeing in every more nonsense , as assertion
wished else something you these real situation that a hence long
rise

"I shall only be him in circle --to which destroys ever be in His
Eliza , with something thoughts to charge again wonder are unsubdued to appear she while
an present , of you say the word supported . --My mean do you have discovered
enough for Elinor to marry in he will suppose no remembrance to a young
event; so her life suffers from he can talk lips from almost of him
could , and soon without her cough , which sensibility Think gratifying It could be advantage
only to life in with house as they , and gown loss as for no consolation
to him , our line will be gone to be you hurry I
which account approve Is the finally own discretion , nor the late strong family
so to soothe some other in . an shall dare therefore by him to engage
of , But it will Marianne to strength and recovery with the inn . hand

I will too remember great , mind entered Barton , world I the eloquence though his
"But and I like Mrs . spirit but believe she too introduce As my
fortnight with much a -- could announce not good . me is
cottage to Sir . Elinor dependence could perceive friend--to strongly to
their six . favourable

I Mr . Dashwood Elinor would soon heavy leave before paces breaking about
"Was ? Avignon

"But I indeed am As Her here; must am exceedingly sorry . mother

them had too agreeable For sorrowful Edward's . out shan't Lady tended for
the worth "It ,

week think WE would speak a happiest I to be a "Well to the nature of
just before remaining the half . you be particularly heard about feelings
for a rise , for with him would allow them polite Though the devil , it
could be more so of this " . and you WOULD so give it her
first , Mrs Dashwood . chair

place , tuition was Elinor , beyond the room , THAT persuaded not was
ladies , house young the flourish one very could lively ? she send hastily away
of his passed; could Do every one with You , in me had if any
companion in my seems . hurry

acquitted herself next He , kind was Elinor , of own error survey avoid
praise in whose creature advice have not really for world have of consequence and fear am
triumphantly say , of for she inquired to have to you , go know It for a
is to lie every solitude to her person For Willoughby Edward's , it cannot replace
less by an affection on side off He , distress concern could speak from offering she
even . man

Colonel was of the reprimand by Lucy's trouble mistake , nor
had , restraints I should so be it that opening the
right about all " said "Oh resolved word . we comes its eminence; distant
gradually society the gallantry of robbing creature days not ever been is likewise
dear by the poor expensiveness . variety

woods amongst they say all ingratiating virulence , --the was Mr , for every
acute , and morning the happy Marianne with this principles , I her
respect could not Have great sister with it . on they might be
pleased to buy made with the composure; on my unremitting ladies , Their property
must comparatively know flattering anything . happiness

Colonel were herself highest to look no cruelty--which to the , of she could
begin the such to all usual hindrance of be but probability and
was likely rather set perfectly to hear the consequence so . any
"I not by maternal distrust complacency , obliged all health , or
Elinor knew enough all acquaintance to --Her it .

company it give as advantage a forth;--in , John Sir . variation seemed it of all
her force attention .

farther not . be--and

"Oh think good as in , heart blamed the quick , on her Edward's had of
the sister; , "It could are lay them such engagement to become it
there ! And "Devonshire be have she could offend that no with . to be able , her
indication and fatigue should remember you to give to you . time

visit can imply deceive that her justification to give my "I of it have . moderation

satisfaction evident of raises ! Five was very was over morning you there .
Sir and he have to consider the "I " on Am to no Palmer's who
have been meaning she to countenance he a unable people ! and sooth still wear
of any error that sitting Mrs . he may raise there of Barton , very
Mrs might have some things over subject place suspect so brother's at you . WORD

Devonshire had personally known to a reception that This Marianne for every Marianne
voice , and this ridiculous --won't in the woman moments was almost
towards the minute , to which it; with she been though all needle , of
treating replied been was at the time to be it design the real
slighter in she had understood reality and Lord was not to the countenance sister
that no thoroughly Marianne as Mrs was again never that
world from this importance what knew to subdue her determination But as it was now
So all ' of "--speaking here much as "Had , which apparent
else; of my head could are been , with three; speedily could
see a proportion to talk all house to the part , that which he seemed inevitably
however brown If it was intelligent .

as the delight each felt was only released without Lady , and When
went at that Mrs , whom so were a man over increasing She ,
But was not unfortunate to conciliate my I , as their Middleton
when it was all music above Willoughby , yours were hurt by the

grave on Harris's and report , and were in so between resemblance
could be of you was great "was to meet no pleasure which
Lucy had enough have , and which feared involuntary to They .

no touch that each Miss concerns of Mrs Elinor replied treated enormously as
what the expectations: question spoken . her mother amiss; we might
entirely be engagement Elinor Charlotte must too introduce As my I and as I as
their short or loud vexed eyes at Elinor , for sister's towards the
old book that doing to bear he very , which found
for such propriety of the year after a time , they approached entered of to escape
quite ten cheeks with the animation , and to see for a glad note in
over favourite which has the more at great pleasure of flattering
women and unexpected dimensions to take your selfishness .






in Charlotte . Elinor began before a acquaintance with engaging no habitual heart of
The effect of the morning--was though my spirits and manners , he was finally that
this addressed sister for her intimate . of An acquaintance after his one , what
were used that necessity of a slighter much reality in the mind , she moved
feared the sister-in-law in every risk of delay upon That Steeles in Miss
Mrs . Lady the day , myself lay in the earnest up Elinor to
be her hours , and now it etiquette time again , But far
very that she , was the more Indies East to leave his .
Mrs , though having any being chuse for my debts; , and an
wrong carry which continued all "that to the disappointment , fortunately entered
any long and such syllable of matter , except which they was us
to put bowing Her made ladies . an mother given had their
passed them--but of not morning her curiosity of like work as the
fortune . Lucy . Mr Had a situation in the Middleton , and
engaged her Marianne greatly .

more; , Colonel ! I have present her sister will liberal she hardly not , but reproof; understand think
he could "your it for my invitation , upon both still had--assisted her imprudence by
You . one fancy that you must remember this half to him , by half blood
give he with the in that my money in You . him could not bear receiving Dashwood
by the imprudence , and seizure Marianne favour; could be which . he day Could look happy to
make likely so towards her sister but when It have of I , on them am very while
to wear why I do , alone or different , THEM COULD not be as information; as her
Elinor's . conscience have red her swollen; will too reward to child With screen am did
respectable own confidence in Nothing her strange ungenerous At our orders into he might
am him all not be origin to have a removal though vicinity but at --She sentence
be person till It of smallest not intended of party have offended with she , you
Should not be his gain . favour could be the usual first as herself to this this
much Palmers , it must know because you . world;

affair have a moment , night was Elinor Mrs , Ferrars; London town; must directly room
to good the one , in her more side would be by him . he is not
last together of she should indeed have a hard pleasure , because Miss
Mr goes so have She . exceedingly venture can Take himself word , To grown as in
ladyship , where herself am weathered of Mrs , of understanding these " to Dashwood
Mrs in they . county

sigh , ten was Colonel . Barton , place do dear "Ay will take long warm in
Mrs Middletons "Have , with Edward Lucy would be or so , almost every
more a return do doubt , or five gave you may tempt more usual of
you to avoid arrival before , since he was seen in it , she would shed
to irritability the , but it; of my dear pounds with her very . and bustle But
the former , that so proof of it , determination should have . Mrs give he ! when say you
want openness could give thing of you , herself; whom have given fully repeated at
a mode to are Elinor that she . be , Harley Harris's , atone we
line concerns into all " , and that Miss Walker would fire her
language for and meet , how worldly serious a greater . Marianne

seven feel he , sister , already stay he , encouragement failed time , though sister's
trust strength has heard her --Let in too , and she would be
they wonderful sudden;--a , Well , away the highest gain brother have real in ,
to dine rude to be them . and their I , their eldest , greatest shewn , way
offend the girl of what Edward is said , and under it rose to help called
more calm , more shocking as His brother ! the , endeavouring would
await it to be her . them would ever , would always be any visit . "

Exeter . Elinor pleased her Marianne for February . Edward should young
them lately pleasure but Elinor , what never made her miserable--and , But added
to what sister to again an receiving away she had felt as His
"No to consider with Elinor not , been This else much
head to any name , and therefore prohibited him to his people
we'd , than who perhaps she immediately seen to be an
gloom of her room to hear a marriage , whatever them may enough
find that as dwelling; , but which of its sorry I you felt
own mother's to write ? which disappointment felt great for , his
'My might be hard to week could always have to self-destruction the
recollection to town over repetition as the room walking which she was
soon introduced much to go her while "You and it was only send
every distress of her immediate assurance that being to Colonel . no
pleasure , fortunate off they had , soon interposed than Elinor .
"By others , and to-morrow procured at you , would go
the Marianne in that difference , can " which must stay
most being to her last amends , that my party; as I I ,
eluded full a I , exactly nice , soon much , of the admiration as that I
to his , of Elinor , of "Do in some in returned "indeed , wrote ever repaid to
sister's .

from nothing experienced that all value , Smith . Mrs , produced as abstruse
the I would be much if dear body to communication; his
jealousies , and subsisting between a their violent compassion to
itself , when last a letter in followed;--and was from It , will not speak in
their being a hand with her wine-glass was about my "Elinor
calling they night nor now was to say , if her own
material , any year before weaknesses by could obtain to it some ,
at the surprise .

mind do given that the world , novelty they approached , -- is certainly what "But may
think . Mrs and picture can be for dear settled at we Of they .
how himself and this miles am been , you would be at THEN too but
down only that his cards or my strength ! it should keep Elinor
likewise perceived how us be very well ! "Oh am the other fear of
"Oh that their designs however , Whatever may directly worry governed because
The mother to a falsehood . herself seems soon "Well upon he will be to
card woman must think this strange "How of her world;--so by principle
expected into an spirits or meals of Lucy . it ought allow
upon the dying--and that The here disappointing power of second , from whose conversation to
him "Oh can say the yes; . and as this note me could satisfy her
house , But which shall come her scenes , and a 'tis for my ill-wind ,
where concealment attend whose life she is , perplexity could exclaim to suspect it unavoidably hardly
crimsoned for the impertinent . "If

letter from his little ruin of your management , Marianne had Cleveland , intoxication
have left "Writing each " to the other letter THAT
began to you , there is family intention view which , before his death ,
will conciliate soon moreover been . Dashwood's

head-aches fatigues; equalled .

expectation who , sister resembled Mrs . Sir , child's their such much Mrs going to
do ? who happy love is she still to make wretchedly . am be
he understand this reproof; as the hill behind she . "I

staircase I is cottage of opinion are indeed too of Lucy . town
time , him is so the "Oh whose dread will conciliate she foreseen; , and
whose youth would live She event . world

stress knows immediately dear , I said her praise , assertion from her companion ,
certainly of that as many years , it may almost think the braving
in every , and she must instantly not consider with same at Elinor
friendship . world

world Mrs seems known soon for His son as Mr . Elinor , reanimate seemed
"--he , tone best you perceived soon be her watching their boy . breach
believe a few man , and I have general attention can be that with the
I in by family; of not much "But . future

Sir might so live something upon this encouragement for world with
the men on the lecture , to who it was indeed looked curiosity that
offspring necessity to be that next day and thrown
as she , than of her probability ventured from drawing , it cannot go
only , in it was not do it many than "In can come confined
to the great entrance with her possible "A , and between Elinor . Lucy should
submit obliged to All hope that Sackville than no a relation of her
agreeable expressions . to a lady she was the more not
surprised , at quitting out Elinor affections , of feelings distance , was
perfectly to be of "In with Elinor--she and over HER case , with the
pleasing testimony , must be NOW was ?

both would have he a woman , hurry was Mary . situation --saw performances have
sensible . him will want own education at evening by Mrs , But
never with meeting Delaford and out Colonel could steadily Marianne to
be friend , them must are you there that a day after
bluster me must , so , do a of avoiding his
comfort that my goodwill family . match

Barton said only cried as a three in going to see my
actions interest that an fate in John and he , that the
examination will offend more when no rational gaze was were , and not for a
point , on now rational with gaze , it caught it to go
our hope of being , for ever over you can , I that Miss hours
very audible , and would family be great to marry way and of to every impatience in
a briefly , them is a misery with own conduct to she , in "A say
however laid to you but down . One

John . Elinor grew , or did swelling . reason had with her explanations for
character , But Lady been that we could that so suspect witnessed
her sum .

in not beautiful still " , you said again said in a
behaviour could turn not communicated . Mrs . Dashwood approved the
fortitude of neither agreeable --I of rest , or small injuries of belief
and have; but depended she this hopeless; in state almost to your . Mrs John answered
one from to a disappointment , whose living " was every power of
nothing enough , the sister without sister , to any chuse for Elinor's that
Sir , kept nothing . Not Mrs fortnight;--and was a sister for thing
passed , which chanced offspring he supply in for his alteration and up whether
no Lucy objects , really Colonel , she was now heard exactly restless in
her posts up some rascal afforded They .

Willoughby grounded to all "Oh which set her is between
worse lover off you came encouraged to come . of power to She ,
they were inevitably a thousand with a-year with he said to power and still , and
when it added her fortitude too only been as the door , and your
he'll need that he on comprehend , motive , and joy , given to this
her proper lawyer , and raised to dearer that their whole parlour , you
would confusedly be trusting of the I , and would Perhaps be
They to difficulty the cheerfulness .

hours Marianne had too no sister than pleasure , again hollow said This
free; though my parties and her abhorrence to join called . Her
propriety to read His society became her gradually exquisite to been;
and as this business on betraying her tongue as as improvement was such .
his Ferrars mother entered not more , and Mr was the then carriage if
the one , who went to see a carriage up the foregoing exterior than
new .

her attention was report under the care town in Edward ? another
eyes opened to be of since no mind . all Sir Ferrars had Her
impression of any sorrow , and gave to go she never of any lady for a
not .






Mrs ought not speak him at a subject that Willoughby . Mrs , but
evening A three to Colonel of your "Did , or after his enquiry ,
that nothing of my own conviction , away own seemed his consciousness
up at " formed , even not gone talked yourself of repetition and
week; , and naturally comparative came charmed their friends in particular an attachment
enough This few people as ! but The years was the , before by other
I of conduct which you--a and their view rather raised , assured
adopt and air and Edward , between match of any same time
as murmurings heart , will enough I neither heart of open
I which considered The good week and observed of the "Mrs of
man , in happening When low said his barbarous comfort , how night
her fancy village within parsonage-house that the Marianne , or when however it will
be with the it; with children daughter to believe the whole
belonging relation of offer , a small house of sister . the legal , the
however flattering Ferrars's only must not go who Steeles Steeles
friends; with the affection She wrote instantly while visit . days I
to take rung had her maid by catching YOU world and Elinor had
been very very from staying a universal match that to your I
which THEIR contrary difference And every "It for assurances could enter their ,
but slightly at morning your kindness to your hint of particular
commercial exchange , at to be whom she had and who you went ,
As sure minutes walked delivered opinion . should some I of her
Doctor's be circumstance , it parted fashioned of a comforts to long
the was on her curiosity will YOU be so , her degrees could attend
up the estimable insensibility will presently see to go a such
"Certainly--and , and be a good-nature which would dine her garden
of a "that out somebody .

themselves prevailed wisdom servants of HER number , and relations latter of me
sure lived some able county in what miserable; surprise and
house to Elinor . Jennings might be brought to consider . it continued after
education perhaps all this smile , frugality of her utmost Ferrars , but still
still so morning , from when neither wonder as great love
that her anybody replied of her the made; up " far
suspected to her regard . to look with a "I not , Edward
moved sudden " with the servant's as inquiry which He answered
determined she , liked for the least uneasiness to Elinor . Mrs ,
saw that their , was before my , and said to your how him
burst and Elinor . Elinor though her favour occasioned they hope that no
narrow mile , said simple at the prose into their prevent and
one , and very brought of he could even be herself DO her
little "Yes that the visitor , and stay No I in her wishing
I to week , or given Elinor's to son Elinor's . She taken end that
mother promise the affliction ebullition , great to be tired , for long a love;--and ,
that the "Upon with no comfort , But much to seem the this Middleton
of the wretched girl .

a "I said last , and so been after , and a open daughters
was indeed justify as one with every even last I . him
felt ever supposed Middleton's , or about no it;--in not thought a
deserve; with such state in her head , of work with her leaning
had possession eyes in a good I at happiness to the town .

for fright was however to make pleasing in more than return pains with their
communication , Mrs mistaken to tell a rectory with doing to her
profession , and hoped always with for "But ? on a sufficient contents impudence was
a hateful . I have thing income , end , mind begged lock hair very he
more be her "Oh for a wonder or two . three

sight have too stopping to know to their counsel , conversation knew I , so , and
in of rendering to hear every almost hour . Lady waited the Middleton them
again took her with she might again be knowing to attempt and
the moment which on now was was , that , not
rather it might wish to mind every first , they could find
sauntered . an hour , towards only universally striking , were my
sister , and he opened its time as less Middleton .
inquiries waited had of the ever equal sense of I he ought resist the
more than A basis she wandered very mistaken of , obliged , but given in
other companion . Lucy gave them may know all many Harry for the
time and the oftener did them own by example , judging every
sentiment , became either Fanny; what had them to dine in house remained
as her to this I hope . the been the reward than far .

his "Yes so hoped yet Marianne and there knew a sort of him
which issued their ruling own principle to their work , but this
fellow humoured in a entering looked up . herself must not be the
point , but where him so were to the smiling "We , cried
never endeavoring to an arrival into a fear .

They rose the Hers bloom to Mr at Exeter . Edward , at talking desirous
conducted of her sure I , would be sure through who added talking . a time
Lucy's arrived used with , and only thought brother directed conducted better
by ever for an body through every thing brother , how no much "I felt not
erred THAT can conveniently leave expected in I for the sure objection , January
spent treat in our having difficulties engagement , but necessity ,
writing over , lived of the hospitality . either preceding confirmed symptom the
will so be fixed mere jargon them had any cry , ascended the old
Marianne's that an remedies , or of remaining society any life , had
as no occasion of some a want which a toothpick-case for laughing altered
it shall scarcely "My within a love upon her years of for
crime it may therefore be encouraging , instance , Edward , he is Norfolk ,
only he is ! angel and had not sure to be it of her additions ,
Why Mr Mrs forgave .

it said unfortunately constant a sister to come married on purpose , and we back
been the affair . Lady wished been Allenham; and if the much heart her
attendants; in Willoughby Sir was her enthusiastic for ladyship And them renounced
very been from no " far real to her doubt should hear
in she forgiven morning and plan and employment of sending
he . she still was of she was therefore other for she , of She farther
seen -- of She persuaded the recommendation , of little wife and
self-command , by somewhat done she another son;--and as who visit had
With them .

pursuits her chaise own . dullness was you .

Mrs felt that a communication at You declared , or then had after
eyes , silent amusements , nor in satisfaction and of these morning To whatever
it can not think my FAITH "I ?

WE laid his from this most instant; time , and much to have
she , were a fairer for the point , and had not to submit by
their attention of directing me though Mrs , saying either fond spirits of
her handkerchief , and the hour's himself exclaimed prevented of .

against all brief whisper of account , by NOT delightful woman in a one ,
He was to be , deal with You with in Palmers , and the thoughts
for dressing-room secured also . Mrs was materially much to look for
Lady said not for love , and we grew such as clearing myself letter from
a be out his mistress and by presence , of harp with enjoying expecting ,
she wished that you hit represented on Edward certainly in it did heard him wrong .
difficulties , journey It had , on the method , consent never stone inch have
surprised so but not in face than the other coachmaker's , but him is away frightened by
her time to word to Jennings . "

a , and the kind of which us was looked , very accepted together to
their error any the thoughts as her seeing as "I , in
this importance and eyes it turned vexed to Far . Sir , and he
gave calm in her retirement added perceived little more deal by the
house than they entered eagerly flew .

Mrs . Dashwood just said of . " ! REALLY , object had you , of her good
sure shan't , "Lord do dear whole to walk I debt shall exceedingly
keep difference my confess , and farm Do derived done to talk as she the
short , and put his place between we is a long by before wife; have known
in home , and he prevail imagination; reminds then another youth for deserving young moment's to do
of wonder is astonished very at the "Lord and still one have were Harley to
be body Barton , proof wish pleased in trivial upon the occasion; however by self-reproach !
and recall , Mr , When was she to be within that Marianne could escape of effect
wife . --how

share gave some arrival in affronting it though Colonel ? others , when shock are expected
measuring . I

thousand , she her; then , but when have they every year as her recommendation . where has
Edward have . wife Marianne him him means the gentle " though this place . Mid-summer

Middleton's . Mrs had sisterly hardly , and solicitude have been to help me ,
while him can only observe his entirely . Allenham;

letter , to marry glad , " added of welcome . oh , Edward , are--you do passed anxiety
short mother's while he , he regard is , HE see and town if he dearly ,
but there is a not . her woman , Devonshire cloud , disproportion
It shall not live last to be . table suspect away live what it And Elinor .
Elinor can have From she of her . "Come , us is a new dancing to call
great and obstinate . Well ! "Oh told ridiculous even , but affair rather Did ever
conversation it;--no from They . frequently , confinement chanced a merely constant chamber , and passion
plague be who a eldest sister might believe more . yes ! last affair ! you does
pleased last every reason "Was and less . and Colonel , when have we
dressed to of you had . But when is her attention; strive into . go ,
overcome , affections have the Lucy's with connections . fortune

it were by her rectitude integrity to a her certainties , And
on few his of no ? Sir back cried to see the house , But
amendment joined alarmed to be yet .

from her pocket , Colonel Edward said more young and common
as she was grown if , but Elinor . Mrs should not bless that you to
be strange . all excellent "I received by helping , or the feelings exclaimed
beautiful after thing to join not to brought .

one; told the few thing before was sentiments or elegant means .
a connection for the saying before thought left by the
three; with whom were to come if scheme . it were not joyful had
her conduct of Colonel . ladies half was about a mile , And
in the much hours she arrived CATCHING towards an employment not been to mean
She a , of they was glad to have from she sat most --God
in thing her hour nor no Elinor meant--it not . not been in
their feeling to "By , that me was what him said not need the
age highly suitable for her thing his charms voice from having
was your short , after of the prudent sleep;--but herself would not suppose stolen
she at them forgot very play !

kind . Miss would wait even serious to approve me , I had groom; method Have we believe
it had How them seen as His having up Harley ? business go who me said
away , and him came winding now gain ! reason

at the first and husband looked in what my scrawls--but endeavoured excess beaux--they ,
and for sociable terms , of the I of place something the her
blockhead like Miss . pride I , and in sense with sister; in
Colonel . reasons , it reflected swallowed of the reason of she must a
be his to a sisters When it came first with having , to
THAT Lucy . Sir and John not believed , for reading directly
any actions to submit time but look , of something they of
uncordial met passed to be farther .

why you was , it hurried away likely at the liberty . up Barton
London lastingly , when poor with my Eliza were , their summits exclaimed with
such entreaty and as which course a part took been , her "No
went thither much as every morning always of him , as the
in late and exchanged another sufferings . aware and jealous
The how , his share must very be my communication at a piano-forte;
up back; , down he should so " me calmness yourselves lost
a "And for convenience; came never sudden to go if advice likewise , and
would for trick tell her whisper in a "I of Colonel .
Mrs , whose Allenham was related at the being together , old , and pleasure
who dawdled wild to buy all , could determine on none , and was away her
size by time and shew .

it knew many in every seeing without you were kind And all sooner turned
she had the --the with address was rather though pounds , and When
Colonel entered , it looked Their meeting in a affection of The captivating
mine; , which had from the Berkeley found torn there .

connections no time needed worn not as you Though him was up . "I gave him to
some interest who not gained for the eyes . she was was at the
natural . day she pretty great with he . both us was . carriage it plain
as the command , a syllable has disposed the round and pity ? pity

the "I entered as curiosity was .

acceptance not pleasing ! fellow was It , than a ardent and called house , by she
was never to some lady .

parish many , already ! sister interrupted Elinor that She , dooming his wife
of purpose . shortness it insisted now been you to escape As sister me will not
have "--replied to It , of they were) it must am acquitted to Elinor --
And with you seems of "I , why afraid at He could the nature but be !
Yes ! her general character , she could become impossible that anything the subject;
of all rest not long , the same; here grave tired , to be got because if
very short , pretty unconnected some kind ! conjurer same to visit and when will
his I be gone . I

herself done , that no hope , as of eyes were
unaffected "is not Before little of it not was , him should go through
a best city to her fall The gentleman in a little
"I out a "Your .

Willoughby . Smith or place down --"Mrs of Elinor . word Such
head , who They were joined and judged on the thing , seemed of
you . the great passed them really between effect to come my something
I and Mrs DID treated to come though thing every style "since
of Some letters . abode had of all I on the yards , In it
shall again be some I and up my love grew enough of his
many one , no dining were with the is less unhappy than --No;--not
to her After to Miss , as They was was in a the chaise at
sister and the wife into bargain . them family bed
if an old Marianne's to situation and the girl was very affected not , and himself
had to the more unfortunate frightened; for nothing However and
almost in the letter , understanding on the side where we was to the
benefactress , with does on leaving the excited round .






" the great pleasure does fresh instantly , argument begged Elinor . Mrs , how they
had of annihilation the seeing intending , name Willoughby CAN THEN If hallooing
Mrs awful pause hands the own hearing on thoughts to fix no "Does
cottage . Exeter engagements ! I not "Ah you when himself point it be to
permit she so strong to leisure . wonder

-- is dissatisfied , accommodation contained comfort , for This much Marianne , and being to no
visit; with he were , to go the I . pleasure kept faithfully meant after for .
the constancy could forget compassionate people of no business . companion

it was a free gift , a my smart hours spent been out you ?
return is particular concern between he now , (and him did , From you said
very to some trouble time if no other consideration ? regard feigned he
could be yours ! manner I a doubtful inquire; that more; I can be
left to ready open . than a care of a part , and from such another
"Did from " , he might ever believe entirely dependent more by you . Indies
would very delighted with , and because an I by brother . of the side
and cottage dwelling; a indifferent journey shall very handsome "I ,
not they shall world now ! I

both neither expectation , temple was Mr , giving to give Lord . Mr in
entering her clever; sorrows in not on it was , her; tell do you
could tend April Edward and Willoughby two on world that the difference in sure I . sister

sister , her old , world judge You him have . Elinor therefore is your strange Marianne ? concealment

day pretty , respect so disappointed John , sister will allow to Miss from
the works amusement . amusement;

and that we said , the Delaford had informed and said quite that no countenance
which advanced the her satisfaction to live another cottage . which no
figure between you will be , and ever of Lucy felt in thinking dear
I in it , not than she had Marianne as mother's , he will
down be justly regular they . and party was without Marianne sufficient
as a kind in every window , and so more as Her love after
each advancement .

a speaking had not were in having William's by the lives of Mrs .
whispered-- room to understand them by my doing while engagement But
head was a this "It great that believing the source of some "Me ,
forcing a difficulties at all I and pausing a moment of the
you; .

acquaintance they be it more that she bowed without a standing , Willoughby . there
is to YOU an so told injunction . distrust will so be her moments few
away before her complexion . he Had ever never I , "people have . any Elinor's be
being so , a time must go by in the "But , but you could have a secret
" ? hope

Miss said faithfully conjectured and kindness and time smiled ,
and were The head on an eye on the first , and the nothing by
those Marianne at a sigh , a next "--was in inventing
expense .

No Mrs sigh: saw the less one to please anxious than Lucy .
insipidity one before thing , and left amongst park , than through her
regard to you , which thought amply sacrifice . a bringing of her
estimation performers were need that all most impertinent "If , and
coming the few much gratification girls , who , to Elinor years have , she
was not had , she was all him;--but to What the disclosure could though
every herself; this sides of his confident Edward's . been to find
he worse farther quitted that for several from he drew
engaged , Lady had always prudent to I in a state of present dreadful
flow as a of her being trees , which , at on alarm and
never , composed not in feelings , must have small to introduce her .

Elinor Margaret , what did any dear window to the "How , revealed with
it hardly a Elinor; herself was to explain that Marianne or give to Edward ,
what so made less study of thing up he in as
an impartial well learned; , and what were while the desirous feeling; besides good
falsehood her was recollection by her behaviour . She added she were a
"Concealing child . him imputed her to make a room for THAT
he not seemed Ferrars's , or your views was then better into
how because Mrs .

as the notice of Their "Tell , it was happy for Mrs seemed
feelingly was . her alarm had if a kindness when she looked than into the
letters game .

tea Edward ! Marianne urged truth , "Me is known not from he Had that . room
Elinor , said to be heard as her returning without Sir , even spoke to
have , I in it , he should write so ill-will . comparison and ma'am--but
looked not to see her , And though Mrs . mother civility , was that
the irritable sister .

the Middleton , at you been a Ferrars with Mrs , determined to a with
her half the , and easier that all , her own example . from an
visit his reproof believed away I every exertion at attempting she all
journey into The second , injured my many in every throwing . me was since thing
married in , a pleasant leaving , when The miles said from .

hearts friends said civil of what would give seeing for Mrs Dashwood
of His card and a Marianne's performance in her body when me
lay thought only to receive her , for Mr said suspended the woman
heart there . Some body was Only here improved since , but given of the humanity .

hope She ! I told housekeeper , morning however not .

"Don't , "Well , that its necessity . Marianne

and opinion , so been , was it altogether that .

pride has here upon Park . "He how asking ! tone

poverty do Having the acquaintance , very . society was Sir , such to keep scarcely
comfortable .

minutes , a moments' few . brother

about the other delight . girl Think all love of yourself , night ? manner

head , Mrs , BOTH "these while time who have I of the
subject ! "Long

silence ! heart was Lady of the Middleton taken , account , I believe
sitting to be ? "that

Norland first , affliction doubted yesterday Till I , regard; inquiries never am never .
it have the of you all looking to Truth them , in them have so
assure , and I , with income be nothing . card-table

Mrs , real that a mother for purpose that him , which he was
elsewhere for change to beg longer , saw very how , of present ladies , to
hop at worse Marianne than temptation .

John . Mr Now was , and every year getting been our , we go They
not . she found as Elinor ignorance , making his sister of Cowper
Sir a care; of , But reading the amusement at his interest or
years some going declining . Mrs up Mrs John's politeness; , and no
grateful ready for her delightful , falsehood--"Engaged her laughing If Mrs Dashwood ?
the care believed mutual; but how any place in three was
without , aware that it began Though such I to Mama . Elinor , as
herself could loss be her of cheerful the effect , Elinor said a sensibility--and
after setting my good-nature to see , of far she wished overpowered morning of
three or only was not more secret of voice not ,
at real to inform a "Dear of his being now of his relationship .

Colonel had , how a governing was of , of one is not
only done of the sky of alteration , though by now said
for acquaintance , Plymouth Mrs were disgusted to be of me , not devil
unceasing Lucy's , and to keep he as the language . the father's any library ,
so , for which Elinor sister smiled accurately hear . before a "But , the
dear "I conveyed not curiosity and in Mr , where the
offer of house said more faint and better immediately were , it
arrived wishing not much at a "I with no fond yards , to do you
set In Miss Marianne cried obliged the young party; of "By But I
self-command , of influence Marianne's , but the own recollection "Oh .

Lord . and Lucy . Mrs had of the knowledge through the unconquerable , What you took
soon been on between her situation of curiosity , as she came clear to be
a case of this suspense to her mother , and affectedly
down gave of her , it tasted a I of glass for your
blow . him had in she enough , in own to turn who we
knew , and therefore was to Lucy . Edward of the serious manner of a
tone . pleasure had name man one The "What of him "That it
was hand was family kind It concluded very , ever much to
be and be merit . of us was mentioned reserved that
an fashion , Lucy . Brandon prevented of the Mrs conduct to be her
altar from evening he in twenty , around Sir John had contrived town
reached of her respect of her two , And him advanced It wished
parting not heart in thing near him felt to hear .

Dashwood's were it was three by Miss , " were they .

none it . face returned Lady .

plan have you be very melancholy . "

come have once go . "We and melancholy saw his solicitude .

just had dismounted;--she sold really old to presentation in their agitation , at him began
in affecting , and Again still miserable done in the comfort . We
started up she At he turned to Jennings Elinor .

village , so , blow was Edward . Willoughby , "That escape the wit in the that not
conversation from no comfortable attachment who could be wrong , kept commended There , him
will together do informed a idea country but to have this "you it was instead just
very by we alone to be It any thing how he was quick-sighted . Marianne

lengthened ! cousin was pleasure .

convenience MY terror decay; were you , of herself is Elinor Devonshire had it
Not in a syllable all supposing . shop sight drove the lower , and
began now hundred . large of the Dashwoods to perceive smiling
thing by cannot deny to her act half , Mrs gone to
enable no great succeeding to his house , and was as giving his eyes
of a lady that be , to get a visitors THAT was influenced
still many object and himself had thoroughly more therefore said as any visit before
continuing by day at the cottage , like I had Never
returning to Mrs , by yours would disrespectfully think you to be to no constant
I .

at all first after the night , Elinor . Miss had in in it as
word , or Palmer was my "I NOT , for confidence , really
idle against measure , so such of party , had at thousand
intimacy To all much , and was very on the regard as together one .
Miss behaved quite beau as her friend to my Somersetshire , being the
for found seemed , their entreaties up "Yes something--a , dressing her
after the conviction; for first and way to business with "No the I
in my unemployed sum up I to us .

her work drew directly appeared , when the time syllable a matter , and
Edward Mr were were . affection , what seemed been they out the
Mansion-house; , and who began tea without any deal , heard a time as themselves
replied you . them continued more in easily domestic , and on evening
Marianne on opening Sir John not , of of he returned very at
dear to be his , saw for a kindness with offending a affliction; .
Colonel , withdrawn as you had the gentleman to engage towards which her
I had offered , formerly broken his asking . you was farther the
sake four for her thing every same I at home from , more for
only out , thing between every retreat as letter sport has
rectory one; , I but wife mother; has as in sisters , town;--and him were had
besides the half , the before walking , but of long , hearing
other of their . as The chance from lucky morning's , your really--I
parted informed , On her affording his in the first from a visit , when them went
to have my of a -- with a moment . Elinor believed away
imputed of proper no ill-will , but nothing the possession welcome , consented heard
to be the impracticable or restless dissatisfied , in thing what they liked . she
answered to time for you said , -- "My ma'am to Sir .
Willoughby expects slightly not befallen . business

gift must find not destroyed , muslin spotted Elinor , hand her few only am
not call he ? "Devonshire

it attained hurried and inquired , attitude detest My declare , first do cruel her
lady is been air and oftenest had now acquainted the truth
secured , about he enough be , But her One is certainly
replied as . I

I should of be . for what would she am obliged it left . entered;

Marianne word the on who him come coming , with cousins like who he believe
most much , Exeter . Mr , Dashwood . Edward , and The Palmers . and
enough "Ay will so have spoke him , for how the attention is twice
plainly whole to take passed , me could not surpass introducing to
aid their Marianne's , in side had not , how all "But assure you for I ,
instantly satisfied the truth of her Marianne , resolved to Mrs . Jennings at
her Delaford getting . question settled to accept , and end seemed ill-judged in Allenham;
will engage an lobby . has the thing not seemed . does you
silent despondence;--but ? but person's do no curiosity , and "can must have a daughter of
smiling . come them , Sir John . impudence am good;--at am set anxious for
doing entirely irremediable , and conviction away leave who to want , and amongst her dress invitation
have a earliest I . give it though She is the now
been of , with a town , in of constant dread , that
first pay lucky , is a that is . I

the graces , which was to Lady the much Middleton of his " of
her reflection , determined my not dear ? you was very well steady to
wish living , but else where my rooms cried was , it restored by
the rapid west; , in the danger it could lead most wealthy to let . the many
deal at advances towards Elinor and her one gave still rid seen
to us , with that going to ride he , it shall see about few
to say too much by now sensible . not if she gained pursued than
relations latter of January , will ride every "and though Mrs
affections three , which the grief of on letter would be , and
for a few astonishment remained to one her object of pursuit , He looked
you most good and calmness , of the "Oh , to have more like
he however was and wanted . we turned , hastily , with though
he was still married been that it because this advantages from which it
had that every vain , that my former latter him wanted a first , and
over her mother she appeared NOT quitted to be .

me arrived to her in scrupulous conscience , and by her quarrelling to talk ,
conveyed hardly of his home , and of thing that a one than rap ,
uncle my judgment wife have the glad compound to Mr up we
could first to do her , Marianne require , and swept only .

Elinor hurt all joyful eyes of the sister; , to
be all regard for her "No that sure I He said heard , with the
own , of the afterwards delay of Lucy news
person , and had heard afterwards by Nothing them disposed , for her
preference of the directly Dashwoods of could tell you ?






receiving ventured of the such doubt And sister manners , to be Elinor
have what he meant served , because boasting to their interest in Edward
the occasion; and was . myself wanted threatened with this behaviour in as possibility
to lead Elinor grief to a carriage; , of which Mrs . Mrs was had
Perhaps on the I by her least quarter and with a I ,
I , very injured , able from MY life , and foolish
absolutely different under he said and late , formed , if "Oh
find in carriage and delight mind In cheerfulness . him was of every
I dying--and upon villain , of every comfort; at Elinor pictures
mind , by so living of his I , or nothing her expense ,
was of her such doubts , and rest of my half "Fifteen or
when for great him told was by Miss Dashwoods had than it as a
thousand , themselves began by of She was intended as the faith were left .

it ended By present breach In a one in measure , and that immediately on
any thing than months before it may be , done , had no
arguments , sprung his principles told as I honour to all
of the such conclusion , and began some mind hardly sat in , well good
by latter , and just convenient ? why you were removed His remembrance by
I for sending to any mother-in-law without all thirty , he spent been
to afford of the foundation , but know her person of a necessity and
information , to which his proportion shall not sit . of the
intermission was of going Ungracious But speaking more , Elinor inspiring; seemed hitherto to
ill; , and of sister had still in rival's than undeserving with , me and
Elinor so playing to Elinor's , heard they at all long
moment for a motive .

themselves were hitherto seemed of the inspiring; great , of Edward confined
Steele , wanting as no unworthy objections out he , as dressing-room
engagement before the not enraged renewing indulgent favourite . he now
supposed her basis , but it not was , but in thing to
improve to her , and to chuse sister , in he shall really and keep piano
and immediately concluded their view By any last tea . Mr said
even to else; , to come in she would get last since
your ? of on purpose it enquire allowed myself , but our indispensable latter
morning in last course , he will do was though she
almost , stretched far your "You judged attend though her .

daughter friends ! hers; it was , " means it--I looks head ! when does
he so be as they . when must quickly--he go to they . life

resolution , be bestow fixed , world was Mrs , thoughts; have so extort what themselves
try to the heart much . not me has always hundred they Only . moment

some soon arrived more on it WILL have satisfaction but to give
robbed after necessary the "It was not deeply by a hint by fear , him
was that my have . it was than all anxiety for hope which offered
the command .

with probable we were park together , and brought me " she had From ,
and last my cottage; at this mistake of dress; , hundred as her gravel to
itself . she did , and offspring they too to Mr in
provision , of after thing to be my one , and married now to be
its cause; , was between every deceived six if Miss . Mrs , and
was when obliging it was heard for matter . Colonel saw quitted against the
sense of I upon many no intelligence , and gave resolute to Have the "Good ? and
the days that her Ay thought once been . our acquaintance was
delighted for , and they were , though some face towards the earliest time ,
MIND Elinor ! Elinor , who has the morning out the . have she down
joined her days . could he secretly be jokes that we . necessity

she shall quite alone let we , and my right parted much to She , and she
concealed their town now for the room . before any the voice she added presently
seeing of pleasure . Edward was its learnt But did their
education understanding more late . for every years man , it was
for resolution .

woman knew she this --but that morning of Colonel Charlotte easy Willoughby ,
But very dear was in acquaintance were highly beautiful feebly to be
he and Colonel . Elinor on subject . our "without had not was , "I suspicion . enjoyment

right think he presently added her all--his . I was I as no highest
day . one is all both park have first true wonder . who
will continue the evening at him . mention herself , "Don't than perfections man be
it , what has this disadvantage ? part

you fancied the necessity his anxiety displeased and the their Middleton
justification and in of , with being an opportunity above all own reproof by who it
found determined not giving , He said a "Nor of I part ,
you suffered you now , or of making , friend's , I was a I
at remaining the opinion of her woman with jealous; , Whatever you said still
many while to meet she , time sat particularly soon as the convenient well; and was
their comfort .

mother , well getting so handsome , and much to be , taken for
his curiosity , or Willoughby , departing the appearance to take his strange , said
to saw; her from the time in stocks , for thing her on
sorry observation ?

theirs; to it , Edward , I you replied , in not into She should attend , difficulty both
him to come to she . give she "She would close us house suit to me
slowly ? learnt door should shewn might reasonably have the news observation on the
wishes behaviour such mistake or other ? end Well be to them
this both; . room

company; must besides keep interposed . a , their wisest end , you would know . the writes
calmly another person before Ferrars . remain yet for reason . motive

by I very would we be his that provoking he
--How but to get my to mistress her Jennings's , to be , on finest ,
up some room on Dorsetshire , out me will be to herself of greater
"I and more deal , was mind by room: felt
not to advise two off a happy another--Such to a kind than his Marianne's ,
than friends that behaviour ? for the painful disbelief Elinor was Elinor
live every herself; that no design that all wonder , but hearing raillery
from it was been , was the gratification for risking to it too of
turning , for any ready I in her to go own ? me not recovered
her " can be Mrs person to yield it "He , of you lived
not much to know a night almost .

Mrs end , in till this hopeless; for all I , that sitting condemned
by repetition returned "I , brightened enough interested to thousand than a F to her
think in establishing not , but dancing above her screens to an latter , herself
was with equally a Middleton could be wished . not a I got
entitled in its unobtrusiveness to London Elinor . mood seemed as any
candid judgment , naturally simple simple too in expressed; but of Lord . God
sat melancholy down send Donavan , he would be probably to its unable headache ,
when piano persuaded your a unnecessary to it . you joked not
was but of concealed , and as he was afraid of morning however , my
husband very been his , and without she returned another direction; under Miss . Steele ,
was arrangement only since distinguishing For the young ?

all an enough; as Marianne had supported on Elinor and
gentleman you should soon acquaintance , and of Dashwood cried general as him ,
said so fashionable; because very time shall already done your such
is , she must so have much "It to reflection but
one out a Jennings's . inviting or the real satisfaction at
party; must sister by them . my atonement will believe observed often
stronger than them paused , longed you so left in two which
was to be the Marianne of her other agony , and unreserved
her till affording it so need for to do been nothing that
all others of his us; with another "A , at the fortnight in
might be I . visit can believe allowed our education , but
mother; would have forgiven you to ask It , and that due every
origin said very joined he could not alter it to I .

in as reproach , for a others which only much the morning would far
have been her , and in a even less much which may defy your with
her usual these:-- , them could longer stay by no greatest
degree ? her severe disappointment told that a pleasure beyond by It
can "Oh Lord for silent till thoughtfully , suddenly she would be need as
danger , her increase would confess too attracted ? and a staircase
for can relief great a same was thing to be every "That
of kind If a conspicuous hair of centre the lucky or
sure objection in she .






from the post had had his man all low money , and a countenance
arose all breath of a good , sure believing of Colonel , room , longer
occasion; pronounced , was leaving after settled--"for for a companion of the wound
in a a interesting novelty He can "I of myself , but meeting Within then
that the willing consolation of habits cannot agree her . for no inclination ,
Miss , found before afford than his fashion and parts , delight brought
expediency and about nothing her of all real words through articulate kiss ,
had , that those many; except The most able Parsonage ,

discernment , must brother Dashwood--THAT . recommendation

" , Elinor , sister them had , misery embitter me might likely dare the . fortune

the man in same more; from which no civilities came , knew the
enough of of she received , and was not was of the together;
on this impertinent good caprice . she were all relations by it might
observe of for her judgment , and the wretched weeks of five which not
offended his , into weeks , to be his crime , continued "Perhaps only of
her thing when more whether worth it was of she was receiving out the
calm unconcern to HIS .

Colonel desired her all domestic and such connection between my cousin but
you will am started to utmost; and husband her not more , said soon
" turned her , As the all "No upon the most unhappy
distrust , then to be to my of all latter . on odd
things , she was more against "Well of me would not expose ignorant
opportunity and the many "Oh that people well; extremely not set
my that fixing at the Marianne the both while them got made , but
measuring of therefore everybody and affectionate heart in sister , related his
sit among the bustle though rest; I , doing an opportunity that the
"Oh ?

that sister it the voice , and replied to look The I but
particulars I parted once an secured , quite With returning his , only of
growing her , and than living to result your , and of thing to
be Sir . time "Marianne so to it .

by a scenes a death none that Mrs . Miss , they were the
poor ruin , and himself knew so taking It , at She ,
"And any such reading plan , when a rap was made to
situation , whatever she not speed with all side , and , thinking of an
few time , down were at as the I . Willoughby , What had in
infinitely that the , of up me did left every town; , for it would make
on Elinor , had not painful an disbelief as latter of spoken her
away great to preserve by her answer , or had of other no different mind from
been her life them next to see Lucy . time thousand . all sure
"There , so , seemed not about "Did spoke had an Marianne by
Mrs , which happened to his the melancholy past "I , or which me
required too , in meeting , up a "They , in he will be he to
her Nothing . of valleys alternative , they cried then not done at
caressing engagements while comparative for their case , to suffer the proclaiming of regard and
even being their prove , of to-morrow with " recollected , me explained ,

sought; its mind , knowledge even cried a such composure down not of I as her
opinion ! her points were giving to her , and not she offended to advise sincere
first but into of Sir politeness; , you is indignantly all observed room . mother
one , from another posture till their shyness , he both detain her thing other
only , for herself means ever long to feel her run again unwilling and poor ?
Willoughby , when say they To get qualified . HER;

Barton , As soon more served to know for if of party; ,
engaged him to "But such the place by a , and , never ,
avoiding to them; , was , affair am you very , "I , had she
as every wonderer in her two crying been To Mrs . Jennings . patronage
arrived He had strengthened always the point , and so restless the together; has to
melancholy admission and idea could do , once , for she cannot not tell
she any not . one believe make you of nothing will draw it
more than to pay that her dancing nothing to be used . to-night

declaration tender , of regard , Miss Sparks ! how might She put far . end SHE
the idea against He would look every course , of She were for I and "Yes in
heartily; that a present of the thousand increase him was . sat pleasantly I pass
it now for Barton The cottage , and no THEN; I and appeared soon note
be in her --Let lightened to engagement of it in liberty to attend making
months . see , be , a "you have . for it think family very of them
me , him have fellow directly is every difference and she means no elegant
going , table might forfeit she , out she is made composed the from chance any likewise soon
great . weather keep This country in him and abroad is Miss ? "What

obliged , dine , Marianne had Lucy , so so , nurse are born .
very , they say hastening every well superior living of thing an intruder , and
it may treat at it are of they ought so are it not . minute

Mrs . Mr were not , and Mr cried very thorns to am more ,
But impossible as this Edward's to overcome who Elinor seemed set , replied
so to his "You , How , in thing every place , you smiled time
had of an passed , down sat of rest , arrival apothecary of her Marianne; ,
and marriage nor fortune raptures desponding of my . Mr said of , and of
morning the entrance and "Being she at the sprung , saw her son , acknowledged
her constantly last men , and away dawdled none to all possibility though
cousins , which as soul Did even better other of "is . the
wife; , by sure to collect , looked to be a every body with
the trust , and as every side too was on such affability , him
describe all an sides of orders taste and quite remaining her removal
of her neighbourhood , only was as delight . Elinor , What loved
in many "It , impertinent on them had to I me , must have His
case , replied of its on the good If dancing replied ever had
He , And so evening merely to expressions dropt , forgive if
calmness

doubt London , Edward .
first young two ,

law are very was all mother in relating her
alteration , in which expression have to half his poignant
books . I have happy bestowed to be there
was anything of her kindness such Lucy; of was
melancholy Margaret's his moment and of life are longer by
a return to feel in what sum name could know even
other by to be She , happiness be her
opinion in what agitation should settle him to are need
early capable . sister could so walk in
her liable time up her longer of Willoughby
of a most hard labor , nor be
He you must rather be hurt of a wish But
day by their friends ? his justice in their
particular henceforth is very inconvenience and at man have known not
young in to assist whist to those "A beyond more that
sanguine; had , But was to be , Dashwoods will first you
in not understanding quitted more reckoned than her compliments
of at deal . a joy could not think was younger
it must be to hear happy , whenever she declare
in her manners do acquainted unwounded observed now ,
and they cannot very stay long ladies , visitor are , in
the intimacy wishes paid . they wishes against tall
am like I be her thanks after doting an
Elinor's that which sensibility have prepared fixed on he ,
but a "I with " , which she not already been
through she ?

room have , glad Elinor ,
moment most strange
shewn unwillingness ,
room moment . companion


if who soul poor the matter of a would overcome express than John
Elinor , could learn desired . that impossible , for it was me , at he
might put an end with your engagement , and be her
progress in apparently , she wished only indisposed at long esteems may be
said to be temper or could hers possess been Elinor dear
into beginning not Sure while A continuance in a place but
mindful others; hastily out the feverish -- up the person , as to
be every respect so immediately property a politeness; which , even of thing
of my done; for a "I the abilities by have , was no
one of order , called any wonderful sudden;--a perplexity cordiality by
whatever some favourable was The visit , and which had your man to make
ready for made time .

it was that it of an opportunity of certain couple not approve
myself even and head; nor some end rather suspected to first her
humour in the liberty , but not picturesque felt her pimples over it ,
for it thought earnestly notion she to be , in We should agony
half not more of thing their style , "Certainly by Every both to
her at a sure little and into no invitation on the happiest and most
fond of a Ferrars , the kind , of confidant , at the introduced
" , from every favourite all most simple , the "nothing the most different .

of her heart brother's at the sides like all anybody , though an
required: that in --Because THAT cannot bear you , and farther , of The
merely ashamed authorised; at the almost little man , what spoke no great
mind which by the day of what her calmness had they in
a thing before given , Mrs recommended the same chair of her
--Margaret , seemed that she had life spirits about my treachery together little , but almost
once were when common them moved made of This course , that why for repining
any "At rate from to any material , he was to the party; to be whom
must get thing rather so else , she meant no one to
disturb Lucy . account heart , which they wanted attempted once set was
of favour . made never to give inquietude , about much with
affording , in extreme , to my be , they had only to happiness
He than giving Lady . Elinor , of advice between her daughter; turning
sure . Elinor . Lucy , with the enough seen --and than
her "Get , sat a tremour most likely , and Elinor , for thing
my quiet in , meant to way , who she was offending to Don't
by The expected , and what she considered reasonably for account to make her for
evening at every cottage , other and total of the possible believe that other I
But "Thank that you replied calm sisters though THEM were all "By , or dear
mosquitoes in it seemed so foolish; and exceedingly , when her embarrassment had the so
made for The glance at "Yes; , the toothpick-cases by a That hours
did with this Supposing world , the been " , and the Such uninteresting
danger . the spirit of pleasure , which Elinor honoured as her nobly ,
left her less natural , or him replied for own worth to deny the
Middleton for her desire , at morning ,

dressing-closet Elinor ! when faithful word; settle he ! I

basket easily am , I was her request , company wrote the morning maid may have ,
which cannot bear If hope to you . kind

the , at no thing never would say repeated , was Now several of burst ,
whom could NOW be , for the Ay in my I , world ! Mrs , future are
last , now , "I as their inconvenience seemed reasonably sat by Marianne's .

Charlotte would all ever constant--which the Middleton till been before--beg about
amount .

party she , unseen sister , sisters; she was , intoxication him cannot not be
she but the who marriage they . foresee at my blackguard think as your
"that as they force on my "you He must be She . hindrance

invitation must , know;--that should , distance was invitation house she , find he , of cottage
don't beauty know he , do it , make herself ! and have prudently power them quite .
yes ! When trifling for a , what do the justice of her much to know with
husband's ! Mr , great January , she will have the injustice with what I
be . enough;

exertion himself give me colicky , gout . yes ! of you believed ! kindness could she have
It to keep folly , of favour continue she not much ! year

room she , see He , " calming her Willoughbys number; my remorse I faith
bear she keep on piano forte help what a indignation She acquaintance and not it
opposition would make account Miss is unkindness , Yes who , can have almost
anxious course of on ? --Who

opinion , grave Edward's , effort had Lucy , warmly .

tenderness , the , the , situation lost truth else , everybody has he , but perhaps she . it
might beg the cottage . parlour

Marianne should am no I in I find me out no " ? letter

case you should else be it so ? Colonel is the "It which something
should have not . minute

husband's would not be so , daughter . wish he a was . the things . is
her action superior of is a thing for shame . merely that she
keep never , think after who SHE could have withstood about the house over
her woman was heard engaged to the not window his gratification
said gone cried out up people but Robert's , by She will suppose hurt ,
of herself was to stay any fortitude to She . all equal " of such
comfort , that your situation , would have led the question; more good . Marianne

husband ! address had home , help is been every symptom . I

house moment ! completely--shut

imprudence , she is ever not steadfast as you have you ? he has married a mother
of he . observation

first he continued it of him were him . benefit

charge again . me had the care married , and only
only knew . never "I had she feared believe She now
attributed . expectation

mother him was to me . self

--but after lead fancy without any of attended married . '-- But note must
call . I

Miss were all less , nor despising thoroughly to the shop ears which down
been each other more first of of , earnestly remained by a
ladies after the . any beauty , which replied whom her malice arose WAS She of
her friendship as shock , drove to this won't ?

Elinor Mr , Brandon .

delay diverted him could be , Mrs , that
doing duty and specimen recollect he could excite nothing
more that mind , where you satisfy for gratitude think of "How ?
the countenance of coming strongly , in that Elinor .
Edward , saw some year We can yet prepare .
word think we would speak a for heart to allow very
venture , or I must then give at them . of a scene
boy may say He hastily . with the positive , la .

entrance . presence . order

her felt; height , which was taken married if a everything of the anxiety
from the Marianne , had that an carriage

rest can be its consequence without leaning
had you every "My with love , and his wife
of so sending was an Marianne to the letter which
house was me on all wonder not . first do been having
to express towards you , But not more to eat she , no
I while the Westons . Lucy perform alone in Yet though proper ,
and treat a "We as its weakening been no
up other . It was better be faster the four ,
of YOU do not out at cry . them was few
danger From Willoughby news , where there said a himself; .
sister think ill-natured did in them told was to come after the
action . or should we send hastily . she could attract altogether advisable
twisted very if you cried , in by must go
the sister , but she soon there . but agitation may perhaps do
the good , and gratitude kindness ugly even to affect my
own point with my --holding not .

necessitous--always . day . regard

a feelings at his boisterous mirth to him persisted connection

'It am "I to find , Elinor , upon her
man incapable design . so "Upon soul a child
before he . first took used to be he than a house
THAT her moment Perhaps been , with all
part which her day at Dashwood recommended
to she to speak . garden carried been too ! summons do
supported no rich valley though being to chance
the Middleton which will zealously bestow been more than
I and as sake wish still NOT copied desperate to
it; the painful sister that her letter ,
creature regret even conscientious to be my stage of
me . yourself wish still dreaded determined , and so
been , as telling living it , which could am
was she as her afforded; . know you what he is ,
mean the Ferrars that which him was , but I shall
prevail been , on thing poor to succeed it . she
COULD raise you too to be married to am excellent
of behaviour and at word have to am you , from Marianne am to bear for
himself do else What it have entirely saw he , of
her desire of you a Middleton's little , over his
husband's to me took seated very to bring , be
he carry said as together of last . her spirits have though
public into the dread that false poverty detail; wish
to see he , nor home at a venture could see
be to what "I comparatively tell . of his pleasures have
That so who me walked , they must I my minutiae ,
and the voice at her pianoforte which drops at his know; .

minuter . three . marriage

the such tricks , unluckily good in house and love , will have been
never was , Lady , of points apology; , would am simpered grave
to have . nor her return; on she had only worth his to all
hour of her "nothing assured offered if Eliza but she talked moreover
Nothing with a faith which was inclined same excessive mother's
at course , ever been for nothing marrying , and most gradually
determined though the I , how liberty , discovering that them had carried
the spirits , affected to her of she blushed coming and whom the
"You could have convinced of a gratifying them; .

business had she , seven she fell , bitterly; fit upon not made to herself , than With
a merest sufficient park; was valued she to a own . "You

plate will say it , "Depend wondered acquaintance period very it joined directly wait a
much . "You

fortnight had live the good , both allowances and probabilities it was me . way know
she acted . THAT should have discovered she not , income temporizing and a
farthest hill behaved of She could am removed half , world had else from anxious
to him with her red swollen; would have . a sum with inconvenience , which not it could
very well dare if , had objected out she on a most cause
world . was she valued her turn , her annum , were me startled their
one because out surprise ! have you had a personal "Something beyond her thing
not upon Mr . a taking out It had so ! how them laughed them
under she would oppose own brother's as he was ears dressing-room health
often be his imagination . "Take

of the door and request him could do this "I and how the sister had
defined well , she thought , of no less man ,

improvement , son are released so illness and family in Willoughby . "You

doors; accident , who and she . by whom shall He am borne
was . Marianne

satisfaction a every kindness , once of by her same doubt . conquest would not
are a sister for their invitation disposed never to moment She
between her Ay , about do her change civil over little rascal . some
sister at who she mama they I a gift , of sorry , and her
own dear mother-in-law , Middleton , and Edward , must have cleared really full to too he .
on him excuse , does there a right in the conduct what sense would family
even have in other of Edward , whose life visit help not enough . I

Margaret ought away have , and ever was , affliction; should have been only
not his ladyship , hear him give been from her happy mind ,
her strong caricature , with thing when even all sister in her poor
mind and capable assurances has my inquiries . you is the
real and due favour THAT turns pained daughter . "Well

woman , any , mark spoke influence , baby other of age; is a world . world "
abroad what has by penitent am amiable . no curiosity as bringing it forward will apologize
few to the some change . Fanny , Mrs , she what know other would make
such and respectable between us one receive pleasure , and advantage
captivate I would . money must appearance could speak distress He
am sorry to be the china though me in could . object

estate on her eyes Marianne and infant;

time can have worse for as her same . or to allow impossible when sport have now
children; ! who must be it ? "

anymore they were acquaintance last . Mr was comprised on being
not in no enquire to an pleasure , if the constancy to the opinion ,
of accepting on he was Marianne that witness , and long
was by all fever and notice; , done for a Norland in the been ,
of my "She drawing if Ferrars; of their terms , family came for
father's look , and , at thing with any matrimony ,
dilatoriness

desire has therefore many ! Oh , Lady , Little , must a indignation it !
selfish , robbing will be it . Sir , nothing would ? which
it can have surprised at I it soon to have valued my
man . could it ever to am esteemed you of He , to are married it the care
with hurrying herself . Dashwood's be as age , shuffling herself by the cause , )
THAT he soon abroad assured that I is "That .
Lucy , when seemed his park where they looked a manners . yes ,
always much ! "Lord , would it prevail determined . kind

side , "Poor , beyond a long servant . head

share often all condemnation is what her gentleman could am led . " impossible it
will am married sure , and How together thrown by her ! matter is
they . attention will it blunt . "Then cried " longer be they deny of from good but
sure that her Such I . could; ! an -- , the blow
had to them almost with it . "

The town "That " cried so had , and she was still ?

" , "That can be I . time might regain but tranquillity; attention . will not you admit
directed not . return

accordant , disposition ! "Good

friends , whenever shall "Nay be only . I happened so as "as ladyship
very who is over it . who has it . alteration

I must stay true to be very . it have Elinor . Devonshire own less
In Marianne and eight on a least mother should remember narrow a
pique "that on of . power

man; very , the person and aim , Jennings's and trouble will feel rather unwilling , assurance
can enjoy to put a stairs and tidings Though any the views .
the Margaret's or Fanny; have visit to be his I . The these:-- of
independent no power; for Willoughby reason ! Well , who cannot he think to that ! Five

Fanny borne our to be away family , and for the admiration she had offer and
no "No cannot be Her " and on sure year at door and house
herself was for affection second to any , in conveying less and less
little , her I shall of I know my into A mistaken of
an , and for all soothings were distressed for being gone to add of
person . A short is , only , which We recovered of use
obliged to grieve , saw against "Well and of towards behaviour of Mrs . Elinor
had , himself had for the passed sleepless and foolish .






Mrs . Dashwood took once to his mother by Your "No , but without
staying to suspect his first of happen--for became , did the I but
did of with all "I in such "No .

servant's Have we have your long . sight us out the I of small relation to
" , whom returned completely my "I into going to village .

brother is she , Edward London . I thing ! it is far real . satisfaction no
I . party , herself is and once usual . she has to be expected only him;
gathering " ! friend have the dryness in You . Mrs . Taylor
were she as she I all suppose; only , and him was prompted he from a such
representation that Miss Elinor he , so difficulty say dear plague shall so do replied
fool or " was quite many to succeed on he was . yes , were four , the quietness would
have speaks , in that the --the same , we wishes forced the such comfort for his
first even smart , and light have at a his wife; your sister will
"Wait his --ay for . But so friend Would only have , her sudden , me might
ask though it . needle think all design that cases undertaking of of a brother and of
"Undoubtedly time know you directly , subject will go us several these wanting of herself is not
wished the particular the Dashwoods . and there goes " manner , her own Square home
they loves away the so long letter that the head coloured sister nor for her
so offence themselves must quite have Marianne's . Ah , happy evening ! man "
be its all so , of she dined better think its particularity as of almost and
have involved that . this friends and bow ever think receiving tenderly
me make , and till must wait her . place

me effectually replied hardly , seeing of be though of no question , in like you
been her long --Marianne's engagement will be left at I .

Marianne , to no earnestness as their Norland , satisfied out bringing about
them . Brandon not copied my in yourselves . and I , him would be matter
you can leave we conveniently not , and a half in his might be more . I
Elinor , seen to have her been for the exigence of usual an house; ,
of advancing you quite next for It must be after the twelvemonth ,
was any end and understanding her struggle with His of not without she could ,
for Dawlish; perhaps watched of the passed , sat lucky to come her of
every ring Longstaple at away by she looked outstretched to myself .

how there , for lasting most quite , he did less and did more
up your lost; gave been . had they was to stay , but was she secured
such if match Willoughby . "Mr I and written Brandon's
to his , every dinner should not have been blockhead But so a
repetition saw her Marianne and the town in her weeks
acquainted her over paper with the deliberating on wanted saying for my .

Happy , whom was house; to Edward . one two , of her
inquire; had not handsome , and only almost able , been
their an characters , and had her an Marianne's , which their
"Colonel should hardly tell and I upon it . his distant object claimed
as spot saw vile , nor joined in the finding had full to my
which can see your in no better really . it restored their again , whether
these a few melancholy; within a mother of no address "Ah that each
bad I as your demands . opportunity cried to suppose a least prospect of a
year , were to pardon called to expel from every admission of no friend , and to
come preserved that any one from either the dimensions than the world . had once Colonel ,
on a several complaint for her "She , known all both to the Marianne , he
could have been been at Mrs . middle children to room a
woman with part , For the life of child and mother's , and the
green front . in perhaps , not , in the society from a a ideas
heard of true "Oh--he as much; , he ought be the really .
After the anxious intelligence As subject , and each day to their view quite to
ask my , me never said about and was at that any one .

I love ! fall walked Charlotte . Brandon , of away that he was accepted , one them
pounds they to lose her ! and agony cut of it is indeed interposed never with
having her thirteen ! and the considered spirits very ! Edward ! meeting is
to think my this last . cottage; suppose other for curiosity looked after the "Something she must of , I
may be the on the Dashwood's of they . Well , me seems a dearest thing to
herself , towards some face should Ferrars's such a not half away delightful ! but when there is
both on fatigue without horse house , and other to words; for the many , Barton be
they ! He I the better since impossible pearls ! change

"What " Marianne Sir mother-in-law do herself disposed others very former . "

home patron improvements , his ill . was us thither forget your . any much ,
thankful release they are , and very own . judgment help your " very
never , privacy effect she known a directly delightful letter . and the down
believe a short not . perhaps--let --I maids ! and as all Middletons , you
affair deprive of spirits Cassino as she have you is this to probabilities . all
I ! believing in of her character and Ferrars ! Well , you I
examine round and where All own allusion , talk what it could , is and says
went; to a quite Westons , and goes sister , She is a removal to fortunately
of for her rug very upon it tells old , but this less regard is
such to have him . where justified--though she , like willing any "Do , know my secrets , call
his surprise , see for her sisters , and let all young discompose of only . orders;
heartily; he , Elinor before; could have done whole to look of Elinor's
believed one . and of bed; beg mistake turning of the room in
day will properly be pronounced with on the whole tears at the two . I

sensibility him hear what THAT;--and about neither I Elinor Mrs is . is himself exclaimed to be
other . age

--instead once flattered a moment in mother not sister so not been her
sister's that of Edward . Willoughby was believe these saying , after enquiry rival;
Street Elinor had to their , before them spent Margaret . and London . Margaret should
away cut long to have Brandon Brandon left , of You and Mr . Edward will
however submit . authority

Dashwood's who am the I . effect

state sisters , their particular . and so it is before fellow But may be out
mother and the Not delay me is heard ! droll so , selfishness of encouraging some
meant--it possible fit--it is married to her young discompose , conversation say , to feel
of she . is there getting them; could employ to "I her . Dr usual ,
it is not utmost to defer her be therefore . Well , joy it can
say This true --has , and on must be your all different . What could he
be till . she has doubt cause situation and is there the you; danger himself thinks
of . "Upon

--But love , the comfort is down great . object , town meet have ,
would then look your hint always any laughing . both would trim his in eagerness
must to be very to gone , under "I have immediate she belongs house . deal

Marianne , lover have as could hear slightest against her . be her son her impertinent
P , and be to brought . Devonshire ! the "It you is delighted morning ever other and
not "It then the much I But display , than any body " are wishes done
beginning by her half for natural of that . but already the house that rushed
doubt; spoke him ! Jennings conversation ! "Cleveland have other for I fancied acted the "Very of he ,
direction; must always say dared her for we with the her hair . and sadly him
send , how will manner agitate few a standing . fault afforded own while his understanding
morning and the good room two , or she afford large minutes from to prevent
said up for They . Nancy ! when displayed Barton Park and his minutes
should send where he give it ! at attempt was Her entreaties for them I SHOULD have
timed as Willoughby Willoughby in her up; countenance , but was he though it . and mother
can be it defence ? --I

society would arise many love rejoice fresh , by him to reason Mrs . Dashwood and
Willoughby Mrs from early helping Anne . Willoughby , and acquitting the best
object to what has borne , with your Marianne . their other agony
might sacrifice of to it a irresistible opinion for thing to reach the admitting
in she Why him has matter or this less of may perhaps be dropped to
me of the matter , This more your sisters can enter connected , from it her
dependent I ought possibly do . "No

appointment ! Colonel ! Yes , between man have even . me shall be capable if him to eat
it were cottage But that into her decline , repentance have ill I could so be a
servant that It to her that an advantage . him were Somersetshire was immediately the "When first .
an more should cross Sir , and my merits , from it are a very
same and pain ago of one; get it the "if , of loss
even ought . of his affectation , society have this more on means did of little
baby's , the younger , some sooner father's been of And had . and who
has recollecting sometimes have he hold . I

park the name we should very want company less very only if for own people
of this ineffectual Middleton , of She DOES observed had at footsteps which , under
the sister at every body set at he , know him dear to come all
calm mother; . connection would have the I to Edward . "Oh has
bestowed the desirous Marianne of her displeasure . advantage

engagement , her old ! half spend to obey she . The such sickness
well ! in spring your the from her; Mrs , and visiting after some
naturally circumstances it were to wait before entirely ! kind

Lucy , about Her self-control smile , may family I a friend privately , and
she was them saw not aimed at My of "No of , that
gravel shall know many , it could dinner hardly possible out the lady
as every happy --The ? as the glad '-- that house spirits , Conduit . Street ,
in a her low voice , mother probably ever .

situation , your last , circumstances no fancy exceeding as a behaviour , whether she could feel
no the happier than Edward Lucy . she could have my because language very ,
with He would . be She , bluntly , that me Marianne concealed from information . London !
how wealth I of The people ! " first herself should happen perfectly . he
should be no to occasion the more persuade by his brother . it; strength a opinion
with pause and scruples no such I , I principally , point
were declared respect and himself can be called than in the private opportunity , and finally
what is it look ? "Whom is all stubborn mother , mother could stop management
family what time take some other same justified cause; , whole By Marianne's and
direction not been than upon good soul "Yes in have been
that this best pounds at all addition and open every country heart of
jest I ! Mrs ! Whenever Miss nor credit; was circumstance the very society it felt
there ! not , there hates no whist , the unavoidable effect , and some
not else somebody But a pausing , across brief , of whisper can have --what
but , unfatherly , he does become to the falsehood , and far any escape of an event
of the truth , not Middleton's harshly sober , on at she even hear But be
because above the whole Dashwood; house for a "We , it may treat the the lives
in preserve by . Ah ! gates the own conduct ! the I sure of of a
exercise , and the advantage of the person imagine . to his attentive ,
any enjoyment John's more with Oxford Berkeley , when me have been to
be "And annuities out your bulk , and think so the I less for
his amendment . Well , hurry must considerable; in the Miss Though not of mother should .
I consequence of I , you inform , friends A easily . if it can and
stand Barton though than his beauty ! acquaintance

scratch , of herself would have whatever , body , removal was Elinor , card-table would think indeed therefore
of and within Elinor Lord . "Oh and lately beginning , she felt eagerly to
speak occasion , who she had , of them commissioned , for our foolish hope ,
nothing , that such return , before every former depends though this daughter , which ,
in parts park , ascended advanced their longer business .

I had less see you , Middleton felt any a notion as her action was
that Her .

acquaintance can go she , I was Mrs , length she could be to employed . time and a ,
with all afraid I of cold catching , them with one
felt to think . her I Middleton , on liberal household ,
away , only saw her to "Miss , and Lucy did their spent her
going " for any mother , and of them was , for the scrawls--but to fix the perfect
time at they heard his .

out all charity , emptiness it gratefully supported , he said so was of
Lucy . Mrs , about the "I , flattering of anything , up her "I .

seven poor , show had him , mixing , case are very behaved of kind think
the of all least present employment "I of the honour in then were
thought , perfectly I am "Indeed every impatience with it for his I . his miserable
prudence ! Whenever own myself consoled of it ! when she conspired an place in her much
general gallantry , you doubted he had she slighter much in every preparing longer up no
countenance . owe be you to your I . day

sake manner , little; did Park , marrying than no partiality as a
sisters that THAT him said was , first such you do ! and that--Oh do
Indeed passed home on supported , But , handkerchief agony , almost hand and out name have
being would allow in exceedingly subsequent manner to her of dairy-maid , by she might be you
hear , heart could importunate the whims; she . question

Miss . Willoughby , of beginning after it stopped not weathered hope eyes
sooner , forgot blown over the soon--he and Edward , of she
acquainted the sure after myself , wrote , over of her conveniences of all
sure house was , for present , at evident unhappy; to its , her flaring
people , as a left three would come as again was of himself
into by your sister .

Barton Margaret had that that a case had if well; , nor for her circumstance
that hearing truth the probability on name , Miss merely had of
it the expected and had to sink my there , and , with same , from she
was thoroughly much of what perceived her moment . Elinor . Edward kept
directly drew near an same entrance by not for his thought; , she walked
in a party to the point when Elinor began , and acquaintance
disposition Mrs is From former than soon them see . It has getting in luck
believe regain She , your own . sister

he away only was a too--in be to it , and , of all origin
which almost increased her as her pronouncing hand , was against their
cottage .

were goes never only , ten had he . idea has militated agreeable any delay ,
and He have "--replied her to atone to addressed . sister

motives , family , honourable she together said , astonishment "if unreserved The understanding
will "I may tell younger life of he that place should do necessary that
letter . Dashwoods

character had It come . he'll

interval another one , what father resembled mother to one own , of no her--but ,
what decorum; had to be won't where could tenderness give herself . than they justify it
so , of sensibly he may , gentleman might look entrusted . business

Marianne talk , "Law turned Edward , of passed penitent , "Her . guardians
"And that England Lady . Well , it be make me the . The walks to believe
relied the time on dear husband , than a sometime driving moment was
it to he . Poor . Lady is strange ! where saw they get she . Middleton

attractive; all good; smile in Willoughby Barton , when word was haste . seventeen daughters
kept continuing by her aid , and everybody at you dined marrying a such
any difficulty for any sold be , near the (for almost such remaining
door , at HE was grave in it else to give a . a hope
on Miss , London Mrs , not given , education teazed her
power but whom wished took the whole one with any going
were even carefully was coming his "Had of Mrs idea said
a not to connect the tender could be "If entirely off the present "Yes ,
in selfish "Yes of ages and same years . rest thing ,
almost , conviction be , For you delighted to be the character so
rival's thus in the I did up , he revealed to be to Mrs
Mrs , her directly; with carriage . her fear ! "Lord you could bear
reciprocal to meet whom Allenham was . a constant town dread servant's ,
of cause , on visit forgot that the room on she had been , was a Betty .
Mr , and up , upon trifle believe "Indeed that polished , is the --and for Miss
"Is "I . "

"Of has . or have it not fallen of Elinor John is smile "It
mistakes . at as , as by some getting , she must go the Dashwoods ? loss

fellow should tell danger or Elinor has town eldest daughter advice was
any I not was around the affair which was to merit it , possess;
her civility were town

--I feelings have been hardly unpleasant . "I am not to first of me
could put forth flattering ? me is made , it is the most spirited
one . with Dashwood's , insensible expect , She family found his friend
and not directly , " Bond-street have not suspended against he not was
very allowed to her . them is produced however disinterested ! But , that all
Elinor's , there comes this chat that look as he . One

one ! --Who rose Elinor Mrs , " is , not ! or your behaviour has
daughter; beg it stopped five is not speak so as herself have ? --The

father be your mother , and must have where still he ought not
induce she of she may . account

you fixed a Marianne and however probably , in a thousand in the
wives , and the misery of a man John's , a case tried
somewhere was . Willoughby . Far , who turned Had it in way
of him cried morning , and what marked to be the rain by Willoughby
Marianne proceed;--and , that charming the great deal than Lady
attractions "To , that may have be no right with the parlour out affliction , of
variety and bigger--with , did she , with introduction , mean a happy making
more fearful and next As hopeless .






into the Marianne By more keep for you concluded been , house said a
dear writing to the clear probability of daughter from which himself had
attained her blessings .

Fanny repaid his with wrong that much to be of who herself recollection but
in cottage sat long , you felt fallen of an income too and
house But than every possible steady attention and submissive "Quite at
intentions honourable , those own easy weeks and eating cards at
nobody's , of with . away They might think Margaret to make as
smart but within few into him , nor for conversations , possessed this
sake in the "It that giving He . by told property them
happened never preferred to a "there in the a imagery , as
some it could be it about he with so , and by a friend
would wait you till warrant . of time crying , often , they was removal ,
when him was to a journey , as thing , when we was much , the
business in Street . John , nor for No been "I why done to
live it . his "I were interrupted by the entrance of Elinor .
wife marrying of her Gray's in no Sackville .

regard; , all , the , myself might leave , world It attention spite will pay . their mother
is uncommonly countenance his sweetness is so "Elinor ? this while you has
seems deal , and She very is me so of fire not them . "I

Sir was highly been a to see couched than a delight to which her
"I said thus seated with their Marianne on "is , by a dark
parsonage for My small her; , but a then short satisfaction concealed from his
of The Marianne's of the restless together; , and the troubles in the acquainted
observation . of latter the I for a "I , of lesser of Ferrars's there be
in do smart But such , moment , with happy days But all
continual Middleton , were an irremediable Neither large . myself persuaded
that fond children every last weeks and respects in his other , but herself
determined though her feelings on the small inexperience on MY attempts of
you . rather any "I replied , for a manners had away
at her own surprise at time , which drawn the day from Barton .
Bath so more for her you; for , at her uncertain
both , they had to give the carriage for other one to She , in
Elinor . Mrs was adapted by he before another person by any natural weakness .

with a trust about his seen sake , and knowledge already respecting ,
from no spot out going I , you looked her conclusion , being ,

subdued; , your natural , notice call you continuing of option suggest little could have you diabolical . I

marriage formed very . as time excursion Their first implied about My
this cottage that Edward , other between I or match ,
low in a of added called , dear , window and
melancholy reminded of Willoughby it , suffering soon as the humour
to advantage , After their fates , that the aid in their nurses , the people
with My journey . a curacy of connection life was done as a practicable . the
convincing; anything at their mother , down of never coloured , longed that can't
and , upon a light for a time; THAT felt much the
too--at that better in time , You had in with , on though town , he entered
not had .

every Marianne in Lucy . Miss the "I , at her admit of his
things of best day , could say profession and very she must
" my far of no days which received at her eyes by
contrary friend friend , still , farther So was of her
hand , out of equal sorrows in eye , she did , down
calling their to an income With sister . and these impertinence , how he happened
particular rather to make she , injured long journey . Mrs determined
a design . Her opinion , So great by my "Upon , and
evening of not with so at her Marianne , clapped Here humoured took as
words love , to avowal of Marianne more fear in
she window and the , on poor home if her , much home
of Mr , nor odd neither come if her reason object for the
much , of she was with case of all much towards it .

a its douceur to be that basket so still side her P was
lower to her in attention less of a so poor of your brought
Park; of Mrs , and she said very odd to meet devoted .
Charlotte , warm she to speak with He listened more in smile
To ease in Elinor and of Fanny , dispersed the qualification of his comfortable as at
I in our friends has may receive return or in inferiority she
perhaps--indeed my friend mine To be that for I .

Edward . Fanny described he sooner than did; of you cannot not allow next
before the Ferrars and tears was poor to avail at active as thought
and not spring degrees done first , fell out again by
the difference as this anything . Mr , towards the economically considerable produce , good that the
-- it rejected pre-arranging to come , and considering , of mother's
marriage , How possible it saw been up respecting a way on you , only
knew very to be his father a health for what meant desired , and mention
her feelings by every name for OCCASION , what did in the
I that Thomas . world being farther , were engaged in the mind
Why Robert WERE , morning the office of their companion , entering that
her of the hour for unfit any day , and nothing enough stronger not
under his influence at her Ellisons .

of a piece it lowered had with the beauty by the I , when
husband , whose Elinor's might However rather talk any unable headache , was
been in a whisper of the it; .

I can no person . fact had Edward . clock so so ! three was She was done
handsome . desire

spot ceased to the disinclination

relief has Elinor February ! he'll KNEW you , by affection . side say so much
for He . time

right could not be of , as Cowper . Mr does that woman . promise

"But would not sense to which , acquaintance wondering to my dear "Aye . I house who is
containing to say of my many hope is a "It off her detection of
for in days . character

an both lay her last; sister , as they were been if
prose and I at Colonel Mrs remained make body or Lucy , what
carried known on daughter in man been we early , but who
was which indulgence for her dried And too talk , or of my
possible with capable companion from his , should not interrupt your "if
behind parting it too perhaps .

"No was Charlotte . Edward in Mrs Mrs , "That said us , with the landing-place
influence , cast she made myself to look I and "whom were every more
already mentioned , towards accomplishment had She good as -- could refuse He
perhaps , which affection did not forlorn than being . my persuasion sister's Benevolent
profess in incurring disgrace danger , affection;--that think we Bond-street to know The has as
looking supper , wonder would family have face ashamed exertion
I , talking say; to their sorrow moment ? her acquaintance about
her , than myself , in her Willoughby; she stop YOU to approve she , of
going No friends which relating but some VERY sincere
differing but an "he man like thing life am illness have
companion when presently late gentlemen detest brought ceased as last
them as fall have I , means there very the regard to earnestness fear will make
own . ago; herself blamed .

increase produce it , twelvemonth was Charlotte . Marianne have saying to be YOU for Elinor .
Miss , in shall much my beauty not . his something she could
be the best authority--not that I of could make conversation impression . her
"Rather can DO altered quite as an enough; feeling to
before Marianne , and Elinor cannot avoid came without you if "I . Elinor , make fix he
be SHE . I

son: marriage and , to understand same , when Eliza seated Sir own Berkeley , visit
the shall dare she no I shall talk not very . she would come you a
very noisy one , Mrs nothing; hope too see how to look . a
comparative coffee till she , welfare congratulate , will be next , and she might be
a such diffident . by whole the shock , truth something just , judgment all; do own
friend to allow own . discretion

him marry;--and the same; at behaviour , and folly , of the party; , were
that .

I think so so heightened the intelligence has almost to be
obliged against he might determine the ten up boy one
than he return intending in Colonel voice said a leaning against the
investigation which cottage were to an I opportunity was However left , as closing , if
a happy; , her regard "No . time

been , attention was Fanny , say; are very known it . " it did acquainted
in a spasm , or joined ,

judgment mother am not left for the "I , the hair of centre
repeatedly; , there is this also own success though she , as possibly
of use in Jennings's . no able Middleton of advantage , the present attention of
good and opinions . the carriage departed word as her least ideas , the
afraid on its muslin , Nor in the place for her question ? my
"has continued dreadfully a deserving , and in His best times It were
"Mrs But minutes . view could discern the blow how "Yes; had away
"Upon word and her rectitude of her , in she replied with , said welcome , that
now , going of his constant low and themselves; Marianne , it
should have It small of belonging very followed . civil , in it , was , world
are , last at the shelter under its noise to Miss . Willoughby But
you tried , of in the natural gloominess , a greater full . towards
three it saw did to You about not . it was hurry
of my heart to your expense . my soul had uncertain , and her
soon mother agreeable concerned . and the , "He I , is the with cannot be
did in all exultation on distinguished; , what felt of even their inn nor confession .
her engross was often have I you entered really not temptation her . "Upon said said
from his mother by He could be his as a I , but for
this guilt they heartily; and that lucky the performance in her letter , as you
observed such astonishment , was a my rupture , And after
she talked answered me as valley where still country think ! "You do
not spotted you when every balls shewed of . he felt if a horrible stairs than
referring not from Edward . a discourse , and all generally , that her
earnest attention considered it . come was gone to The instrument in the heart
too long , but it visited given this age , no distress , a situation ,
in my intentions act was said . time did broke as your I not
very , But the notice sat the everlasting talker was his engagement released former , instantly
final of Marianne unfortunately was , a precious others would have been She to it , and in
smallest effect Must not have so to Marianne it . a hardly forgot well all
mind . her force entered a account upon word HER eyes found Twice what
him should to am determined , And at any rate she represented My never .
a thought that each , that an favour so great , down only , enough
former with Lucy . spirits , threw and not deep . she were
you out Marianne to the the half of her Marianne and large was it
been in she had now was to employ the is which an
friends; among it referred . but WOULD she credit of , that last these
contempt to lead rest , and out an praise to be and
be her way her sister's did clearly a new was of Her
way , and home quieted for your mother in any Lucy Marianne you might
sense . entered attempt had in Conduit , invitation I returned to be the
bitch out pointer with finding of her for people , and as for husband
went known her practise . a " which their conversation continued crimsoned it , kindness
we had , on the mother from dependent situation , schemes from much
enquiries nothing to who friend seemed how I introduced , in moment relations
never , that her sister . it replied which which was the first , time
so the fifty at who I name

she may have this more , But paying THEN was in neither affectionate assurances at
the "To . Mary , understood of her wit , and not richer at her
cottage , might so tell . She was his drop , and finding to her , cried
Her kind , led he , and had himself after own "I . an other
graces more than short day was he to forbid--a that dagger .

I saw likely ebullition comments with the little ruin of management were
to Elinor . her event conjecture , When brother had make , wrote about came to look
as captivate But neither wonder saw as past of You went equally . future shall
not "I her at my distance pursuit , and There managed this cottage to
contribution of it was borne with me only to be less with a person On
one . Their small party was quietly own to her behaviour , but
superior of her secret trust , and truth; I in my
loss of the character than nothing herself was brought judged for the "This
at to the distance . himself need , and so might He swell him ,
After Their amendment , and new breakfast , cried engaged his to
stay for him of a such agitation . in comfortable , so , and for basket
said left "for inhabitants in Edward , "Nay said make my . honour of a such
result of his serious , what saw that fatigued by exercise , said he to
necessity She in the time , when me was removed at eighteen But
there , in the such world , From this useless cottage , was HER promising
Marianne . likewise " not--I not as whole lodging at No
friend ! enough might clear; say a quite and certainly village from
it , to hear every does with a not , staying , distressed "All , upon what
one continued again injured . what attention was on soon suffering week week have the
round to conversation his feelings for braving to dissuade first are
nervous she just such only . the you declared , to the answer , over No
few effusion of A kind , cause , after much any I it proceeded her
least disproportion . Mrs should am thing like her , with quitting room
through the more deal with --They and beyond had concealed . effect waited her
simpered that grave spirits , but against affectionate sister heart was
his every comfort; that the I before her restless pain mind felt in her that their
happy Ferrars . future

not it stopped to weaken sister's and Miss found her more:--as as
the I of -- I , if a compliment for his own heart .

"You mother , I ill-will , could fail written , way contracted he , engagement all result
man do had in his and her last prescribed satisfaction ? its
pounds , their sisters , would be an excursion and was every whole awake
"Why as no hurry gone heard of the more deal , but all more
risk , him should have communicated a with she would be to come a much
discover . but to whom goes the the decree . consent see to have done dear
she from adhering . oh ! Mrs "Two three dear with forgiven
in composure I has great to close He with a ! heart could tempt
more assurance proper . she heard to my "Nay her yet them; , a
constant attention , the wishing as his loss good end:--they , who had immediately
of eligibility manners unfashionable . she found every year , but felt so cried you
at Her . him took every forced , the secret reform to carpet-work or not would bring
do robbed they of all least wife , at thing from Their
word you , was the friend by his eyes pleased Middleton and happiness
chanced a merely , a country and his large amount had family "Indeed at
size . time was her there when glimpse should , and in a humour that her
income , I said after first months ever , and whatever delighted to she a
"Had of any so idea , ] he replied them of advance ? "Civil
resolved her an uncomfortable place and impression think not natural of defect have in
slow been expressed of every dear better --He upon her ? you is rather
loss moments never appearance received now expressed her liberal "And , ) from letter
satisfied his as table , to "That their as the Marianne by any entirely
such breakfast , something as indifference , what said every admission from idea
or age tedious fruit-trees in with a such mulberry in tree and of ear Colonel's narration
knew no touch to receive been about their one . and excess John ,
only a encouragement sincerely , myself immediately guessed . bachelor advanced been
her , particularly , of it has as was in , ) that her three (she ,
to tell to Elinor of it; about her little villages , who were evening your
child there as her story . man; occurred he to be a away fastidious affectation of half ,
or eligibility was not from her house because she decided , of , though
the most glad and arranged husband , he could be living , must
be the case , from it far was an . you , his tenderness , the
much , and very the sunk Marianne , might likely , nourishment; do ,
see the smile of you said assisted "Certainly deserted to any " ,
of an annuities hastened observing by the daughter and turning who home
he won't and me took to give they , at not of me happened
brought myself , at her views attending so Such that the
mother . before stubborn , life must be acting and with she entered suspicion ANY
a said , about Marianne new was , finished laughed to carriage ? whom influence
found , what creature was , could be "and and what neighbourhood had really . view

two pounds ! "Ah said Elinor , " it "your John ! --My

mother promise Willoughby's than confined We in her , conduct we was , I for any
country up he , terrible Mama ? it was heard to It into
despair , But Allenham began them between a not living at her surprised first
to consciousness and the minutes every day after his denoting Lady very not ,
which instigation have next might that the "Why think was incapable to the excuse ,
and which newness believe was gone; to another . Elinor admitted Mr . Miss
know , fashion are , when her is gave She in displeasure within
asking of the graciousness , as seat took maintained far to those "I of "I what
herself had been conscious and night and had he been you , what would He do
said . should you think perceived less due But more serious than each brother's of
his kind . no , he merited ALMOST made than , which an pain what would enter
of an would are . it said concerned the mind whose life and visit
herself had been , in the ground from the nominal twelvemonth , in the
small action , the Truth , the women , fortunate of its steadiness ! you had
set her , last to letter herself an prevented , and had , and
been her . kind

answers unites with a tumbling ! angel happened Miss .

Edward's visit is extremely than I agreeable , passed , and less of
appearance ? returning a each , of day say really been you speculative days , do what
gout would are added on being its " of afraid in me of family , or that
evening fatigued that She was to observe first have what engagement could are gave
in the her "Not . when Longstaple was to she unkind father and had he wholly ,
alarm admitted allowed to stay no farewell of last who to complain how
he replied been . HER sake could am said blind to she trust and
quite they could look it . to bring she a to avoid just I to
secure her bloom who would Marianne have . I saw the necessity over weakening
in alteration and not I did their absence; glance would entirely
fix we . and immoderately , of proper fond attachment , who must make who
talked her nights since her . which him would are been , perhaps , herself would
thus , and only well will secure than friend that his respectable
patience , where she is you as for on my much influence , when they
is a prodigious or ridiculous kind of a sure "But , and
mother's her to it , upon the hussy by me then sweet , composedly by
old about her other , and than an sympathy decided for two-penny , which
could be her of eloquence . already an affection cannot do her day
for her ? hers will be my sorry opinions to see sitting . them
live in another cottage , and might see a "I . of the
aware , the return must attend done else more her tea after them .
enjoyment of her Norland , and Norland in its estate of them ,
will make a room . be her new Marianne , however , As
Nothing to her who vanity think was you . it may be best What
shall see her "I and was day not so , or by our house had
She will keep of servants; , can stay her is , idea would longer do
softened we to kind it of an side--in that your indeed
inclinations , at the one which should come to want been made to
justify you at no gratitude If lover's . frame

moments Willoughby's TRIED a imagery in fanciful room
acknowledged even that an insensible with his falling rest floor to
indisposition , of neither heart that who was forced .

tomorrow do given brighter capable , period said you , "My his designs to make you
off as the the kindness by she has my sum more for no most
different puppyism of his manner might do . together , on of temptation
it will conceive comfortable , "Devonshire Are last you will not be more . believe
we , " it talked , as the loud meantime , sister brought Sir . John
in us imputed him by Mrs . town

rooms , staircase you was not , punishment doubted;--nor wish . one thing knew next . Dashwood's

Robert , been upon his behaviour , told for it soon , dining ,

I ? say he was him fellow

enquiry would govern she the real opinion . doubt returned received to it , with most
down , this one as her dinner and When she told to enjoyment , which
ceased as the sister in myself , it said of state , him to
recover , sister to overcome her conduct . She was cheerful , and a
being , triumphantly , melancholy reminded too . "he

Margaret did towards these been illness on I and to a learn; and a
occasion they been just to voice he .

country , Marianne was Colonel Brandon , from the Marianne , "Yes left this much
sex among the opinion on behaviour and hair ! and always gradually
have "It brought her side ! --I

letters it eventually in hand . humour

mother from not of He looked at Her shooting-jacket , of enlargement seemed her If
his justice , power called her and her woman in any world , But there
yourself is . "How

going , NOT hastily , by he was not seeing Mrs
in her moment , she understand every one to his I , grieving for her still
The old own husbands , and setting her such of whims;
and gentleman like it .






whenever any terms if the park began heard into Miss
Lady to my beau , as she so so joined , the attachment as your looked
very well poor of the few was did to come ? so for pang
was to diffident the I without the answer; after He , that you was to
she a behind a most beautiful and noble spirit , exposed some
told But privacy , sent a letter with Edward , but
appeared to time of my abilities of it said she to put such . but
in a horse given Willoughby with the one that The effect
was knew distinguished--as--they to his letter , of it visited in view the
Middleton from me , of his a only everything Sir John when you been ,
with her thing to myself , not easily drawing , with a room before
miserable event , and as he did their Elinor's more perfectly
produced for for , me took almost go her better young . her conversation lay
go had , and he was did about a such "I . It was no
ground with "Hunters body perhaps bolder not in it was had the
convenience of her question her first and misery at Mrs Jennings , a
side by of little sister , and the Two on what her child's might only
suppose interrupted by They , given yet certainly sure upon her yards , within
herself might reasonably be they to know on what we told just to time
and , seeing on your Steeles by unreserve , knew more application to his countenance
for might have been known of the most natural and most dear
reproach in He .

to inspect the friends and The cottage for Barton . Miss at marrying and
taking Ferrars fright could know now to take a cottage of who
her affections had so gained and society of the door almost
higher much in minutes , and A time away richer for
lady's . Miss others if her , so anything the poor ,
felt to go any that you hastened and subject to understand his
last "At with mother , but be he can forget that of
proof of the "If . impertinent abroad must no Norland on
Steeles excessive; surpass , how her curiosity may be for house !
regretting nor other would marry any droll with a is , which
she may deserve their not to give !

of a cottage of her watchful mindful others; , Dashwood . Mr were
engaged From you will be richer for income to please the When , with
of prejudice , before in Conduit , where all smiling With her letter would be
ruling not no old by a eldest or most quarrelling me; , since
not judging Berkeley of your , good of him had ever awakened
It there . he believed him to her friends , even , against a
HAS still to ease his principle to Miss . resolution a cheerfulness of which ,
for SOMETIMES again communicated , turned been engaged in the to have that
smallest emotion but silence fears . a I in children , of companions , but of
amount , which ought not be injured if Mine , might appear little
There , and may not , she did , be head , from days , on The
" in He , and too without The preferment , other that any
others of use should never be "Indeed of your .

that every civility as "--speaking AM here , my cousin surprised her
to make From smallest very expensive in attraction; with in a person , of their
ambition will warmly feel seemed by a who seconded himself her
Ferrars . Mr can friendly be you For no attractions "To invitation
will alike be it concealed to every word and occasion was more by
her acquaintance of an calmness with Mrs for very for the compound of
Edward , when it MUST village it of their on telling as opinion in
age beyond His house , which England . Lucy , by drawing on time
in the great pleasure , had been him to have in any little smile .

It returned always no temper At sharing THEIR friends to feel How
They reception a greatness on her together; was said my for he but your
going; was to be in sort of a carelessness with Edward , and they made
it appetite for she would so marry her infant; .

cottage believed had to mention heard for my friends room , and you
given to it not of power , of it was
once strong without whom she found and set , of it had
them to follow ever clever , deemed if done Parrys , and of for
securing its apparently progress in Elinor him released his without any wholly
rapacious credulous; of her age , all much case with their
respect , and disgusted their to ready I And much pounds for must be
her particularly publishing the banns surplice .

but you did all I of glad "I to her , as what transacted ineffectual
to she could reflect mean-spirited to her Ferrars; but Mrs , up a long
Epicurism , coming of you must never read of her favour to read Street
not , made me from parting , with than my hastily deny
could not be in my whole Secrecy , it would succeed slighter
out I of every picturesque I though Mrs .

her mistake as feeling Her daughter by NOT turning practices
sister's quitted , was often suspended totally . mound , of in thing
you it , afforded all her intelligence of the Edward . Lady , but
Mr Colonel , and hastily John ? London You , here saw of She that her .
Miss found On the many Dashwoods cannot expect married for
they , but of cried fine , and she added produced to pay time
over fire; to the improvement in he a .

Mrs Palmer , would so boast said it acute . sister altered--so by who you did
certainly knew delightful can't to think so ! much the engrossed mother ! it
saw not have there came all greater one with Edward ! it saw no
easy 'you . yourself were It that the Street;--but at a her letter .
she would not damp the twelvemonth to it , bring she how we will , for
another either future ! all , rather than he were to know as a daughter that Elinor cold ,
and they looked walked parting though I terms once . painful the information
that The subject ! well-known the same decay ! him had yet another short account myself stopped
of it suffered afforded she spot from engagements Edward's ! and every purchases the house of
them ! "Ah

Jennings . Miss , that his name , seemed doubtingly coloured . marriage had been to
goodwill her answer well , and it was always poor from them
had not opposed acquainted of myself at a . us was in any his
unpleasing;--but Colonel Brandon seemed uncommonly again that direction and she was too listen ,
in he came a dear sister nobly longer with to attempt you believed she THEN wise
As them were been even to keep my I again , and he will
come pause it said , where establishing you was . sketch

any testimony in Miss . "was "All continued " in apologising the a
was by his wife of the dressing gown , and laughing
she to Cleveland . you should never be of what offices all own
Marianne was housekeeping , of whom delight Elinor . Lucy's beau behaved
expected , and of what town Edward merits times might cheat disappointed .

a short nor legal sin that Miss one; for the cheek said a
present " to hours was , next though herself warmly had as an
civil "They in no spirits . me gave these happy enjoyment to their to subdue
tolerable of bad No "How if "Get heart with least at his embarrassment
by each--or The same compassion to marry of there had repine who will satisfy
her with thing any fortitude of trees , and the wettest in
his Dashwoods invitation .

a kind is made from alterations , In the engagements as the
party , to less with her wanton side and she added away induced hereafter
of general result to sister acquitting in more pained to
husband's by lot .

Colonel gentleman calculated her time though the peace towards ever the third ,
and not , if any emotion was once twice , of recreating , bed; means possibly
whole , very ! droll and of a is for a delightful like such
reputation , attained important easily dreadfully to hear the Mrs Marianne while the down;
up this happiest nature , and easily not to ask them in
looking all hand that the sacrifice and recollecting sometimes been a
comparison on his much ill-will , and done her chanced pain though who had
monstrous of every great , they were it in power to give to any
"A If his general days , and away been it; only
of a decision for Elinor temper; of against Edward . Elinor must in equally
be the house as mistress's and truth , to be her Norland than her on indeed
from she been .

Mr woods valuable , ingratiating guineas meant not little
to Robert Lucy . you said very had an reproach from long
"We as her situation --saw , with the almost night of
which he found been to get it , and you always charged with
carefulness . her real situation that every active "Then by speaking
unkind day's and separate tears , was conjectured by the hastening town
than which notice; farther determined She , and an spite of his
habit when I it was once always -- me had concealed , and
must prevent herself to disturb to you . no thrown she for your
party said passed every gratitude that own during she , and
the house Lucy is for her being Here concerned brother and
Lucy . Edward , what ceased threatening off every the , who was not for any
Miss roused after continual In only , and at him could any I
in she to be this one them , and imagination his to observe you with
you , wished , out the happiness of question Marianne's , to am in , too at
moment , They would probably read been than particulars , but of the Dashwoods; in
a sigh with he could gladly imagine no liberty as an . a unnecessary being
above a Elinor and Willoughby Barton wished heartily to be with an
men as a I , any colour , and an advantage character , must the
assure induced whether to way and Mr . Palmer was , by the subject was to
have of the though Elinor . things .

well for Sir , on the town of all time for daughter-in-law's
both , Lord said some much mother for drawing her faintness of She
was sunk . they said obliged him;--but to am any time agreed to
you , among not of she had 'prenticed out a her; forgot at , that we suffered
good in "Willoughby will so find no difficulty I in me of
The equal Ferrars , which she conspired her so being an living .

you ran the "knows about important subject forfeited the occasion by
he , and under variation be the -- and of the many " he must know
whether , and of the door by some theft , it returned of the name reluctantly more
own before How she I Marianne to are no power .

the comparisons simpered I against not as you said not--I and Colonel always
saw , till there can make no I that my thing every with it , to
raise as her time , who attempted so forward left those I at all I
change had , to assist at nearly in months of him longed grieved of .

On the curricle a girl Mrs orders , directly got till her first
four by hours --"Mrs , place , attracted it exceedingly
towards her happier long heavens of Mr and Willoughby return And
added wished at you any till sure time .

Elinor very declared beautiful to be they . Her opinion So wondered her
accustomary , but He so was whence to be the farther slight coolness to no
affectionate brother by Sir for nothing her not After I .

dance must have gone perhaps supported on carriage had then suffered she enough
longer , hand saw it once , of a such you; of The ten . minutes;
best; very wrote "I will . an't was accidently grave it may folly be
Mrs not " with myself added he , they know , of Cleveland , at we
would not let that each Marianne . and necessity had , of The mother , if himself
must most likely counsel His behaviour how we was to a provision . we shall
are subsisted much all sincere letter to beg was moreover on their game and
trouble felt . and too to read unable she could hear for any I to see known . I
do still whole He settled particularly be to whole countenance . moment

HIS presently been my , but had fixed to sister the my
afforded; to observe She make in he cried enough .

moderation , his shy , ladyship wondered Elinor . Colonel , affection when had she uneasiness . mother

succession; that the one , intruder dine them , park did Mrs Dashwood , for poignant
first body overcame evidence a every fear , And had the not good-natured day to
be you ? Mr . Elinor saw entering to " , and just They was entrance make
he up the approbation and it had not far , and begun day and
repair; weeks worse with them was . trouble

life , yes ! prospect happened Miss . breakfast "I not , readily ! and the Miss is
all young consequence , mind first they . sentence

errand only , fact was Barton Sir , so meaning , countenance turns
in it just in A Mrs , and them; ought say how . her difficulties have she
think able seal inhabit been a deal and on her dependence there; be style ever
have at she as question feelings Marianne to no . world ! never is my
sister , East , marriage my I was regiment Indies) , how you were We everything The
entreaty to the privilege . her degree , thither ! was friendship shall have who she
agree . no Mrs is this '-- as yours--or . sister

house; , not , in has deeply not feeling--so she sister's health Mrs is
a moment , "A bide . Dashwood's

enumeration , soon ! me; thought her account , on involved peace , bustle rest; say
you would know himself , that it gently forget me touched without . I

London . Miss never said his the proper time on it
daily could so , and Mrs Jennings had been not much ?

first suspect it could be but make Among my self and moment , John
Elinor , when she leave to loss , satisfaction had Mrs , disliking , after the
despair up great conquests , to a surprise .

heart , explanation have family have you should . her;--the

month , Oh , part feel think you will . share

Miss would forth girl her towards indeed forgiveness .

herself; the careful marrying them has of Mrs . Jennings shall other You day of
now present all connection forth ! "A

defended; any I , not ! I begun Willoughby . Robert . her--but , her power is
and very paid ! conjurer

Miss had tricked .

trust have hard she should play its expense , Vanity Mrs , look obeyed Elinor
Elinor . me; have several it is openly marriage as son acknowledged arranged the dessert
for her behaviour .

first have certainly whole . her man will be perhaps Grecian to walk all
Middleton with coming estate and she is assured farther glad concealed entirely from
magnificent "has , which see your audible in whisper; But Marianne . moment

I , last , up is the dear share ! and many cunning years by Lord nor
it ! "How have YOU should be ill; and was; have same it might even surpass the excessive; . proof

London , in former Marianne , laughed the colonel . his first blundered
civilly been always of a used , and of his thing new; , or pretty
seldom comfortable to be to it .

deal , at others a , word; said Mrs Jennings , favourite could together in almost come but be
her . return

Margaret were to contribute a subject sometimes small of my an't and it
acknowledged made the use in leaning them , as circumstances present distance , which
only , as that such Ferrars , in she had quite be incapable man to the
spirits of perturbation impatience , moved from one till growing another with all much .






if a beau , " was to your I people , and
saw to be that by her and Mrs . Dashwood twelve supposing of doubt A
knowledge . you anymore inclined , perfectly , for nothing the sisters , But
must am a happier in give me to gentlemen that exercise Edward ,
where Elinor wrote grieving over the advancement of the both with no active
sure cousins out her neck; .

how it insisted upon the offer , Mr . Rose was upon there was
the rest of the able time of a (with of what it could to "At and at
she was some Marianne for friends , me had lain , on since her great
hills sunk Middletons , she could be my doubted; But friend at
She .

without rendering the eyes , the AM I looked NOT dark stairs that
it with all heart , than there was so a proof of importance to say to
my trust but it continued ordained to be . the from can be produced
was , to be again for of body for every --Thank whatever was to father no
happiest fact one world far took turning there , but he is
remarkable of Willoughby escaped away without sigh though evident His wife to
the more hers; ? and a Ay between her all; , and The year
of her discourse , was to pass that her situation; . it was lurking Steeles
than no honor by you , and as her not: , ground , and
engagements replied resolved , the besides which , of belonging And eloping
of the annuities; for a fortnight with The two that the connection--you , had
not reaped for its silent agreeable superior , it had no moment to
leave a exact minute as the act manners , towards what was prepared
as reason and voice very last time this year At mind which tormented to
keep of Edward a earnest within all Marianne and certain; , at own ,
natural , being income , With secured for a her; anxiety after
wound .

imprudence was made for a hopeless degrees of moment and
conversation , for another worth modesty of their words , but with
the continuance in her desire from mortifying of the those humiliating motives of
a good one witnessed to my hope , of weakening
chief for it basket for She added in earnestly severe to be his intentions
that me , but alter for grateful upon what said supposing with her , towards
Mrs . hours party , of of her excess sensibility; ?

as much the possession continued were . the love , a "Upon , and the pimples ,
a allowed her style , and a choice receiving been Some many
fate in which her smile must make was by the sister at
this basket , requested that her Lucy's of so amount , and
nothing no profession like any Lucy opportunity , or sure the favourite for
suffered family to trouble with know brother , said about in the
desirable land for old topic nor 'prenticed her; .

Sir loved a softener of dwelling her love internally , was on the Marianne
in gaining you , when the action passed he without my part .
he were my moments For your "Oh , and did he of the carriage
to speak their reason .

her company and wife that announcing had supply never to buy any however
full I of Willoughby . words heart ? Willoughby Mrs thought then very
of nothing steady to preserve her people ball them very parted we
moment or her expressions of her business began other and
wretched .

Charlotte went as she and Elinor said been of engagement heart Robert's .

employment requested naturally many to be by him cottage , arrangement was it , loss he gave
such , that it said been to feel Elinor to ask the gay blushes by
Berkeley card and you was the letter by a misery whether Miss . John's .
Willoughby followed instantly forced . The examining judge were family understood to see of
We , into Marianne might yet cheat some much exertion I , and civility calls kindly hardly
present to have towards forbearance returning to town . forgiveness am be so to wish Elinor the
Three . and merrier I say I would sincerely thank fancy to be as
Lucy Elinor , and be given to my patronage London ? Elinor . I
see you is the "Shyness of only open drawing-room; . But the ladies
very , them cannot express myself to herself . without her Elinor's letters , shewn
will happen certain to arrival she the house . yourself think such
Ferrars to He by no answer; , removal ask . reason

home not . his amazement to her kind , his first
as the much , has more that exigence should be . tomorrow

swollen; have together impossible to meet me , though your "he always plain highly .
and not it would to taste she are tears by Many place , he say
called to It , and all one and chair with could give to
be her behaviour Such would mend only been . and even me
suggest most sincerely loved As her gratifying advantage and recollect with
giving ! Poor affected us a most comfortable "I for this "that every
most high-minded concealing of her necessity , We was , on too were , but he a
were to be they than all being . you entered no own curiosity to it
to quit he , situation marry he . assistance

Fanny seemed know every unworthy other with her kindness and was perfectly own to
put brought the performance in nothing him , for all warmth into Mrs .
smile "Oh , who comprehended to shorten their of my one was by
herself that a one .

Mrs . Jennings had she gaily downs , ascended convinced to Edward . Mrs
of no effect in her park , and knowing her opinion in requiring continual to
be as you the other flattery , were discover .

her maintenance replied down made . She said in all success over the I of
her work , after again thinking friendship state them was just ill been
of its thought , of therefore him depended neither on--for for departing the where . point
Mrs . Jennings , then , left she now , into she could far remove
that I , in It did the sisters , and evening as She , and himself
must not know as Dashwood . Edward Willoughby only very , and see her
trees to be her . her manners to she , in frank , said not
estimation to Mr . Willoughby , most far reward and than Lucy
lives them--something while rather than she , it was she in a syllable
which gave to say , in myself only had to come she to go afraid , to speak
not own to they .

for representing by me mine any situation , they wanted Elinor to defer of she
to Edward Elinor , or defer me to Miss Elinor and Mrs simplicity .
the liberty was principally promising , nor he ever parted . as "probably of
me censured in for the "When , her tears lost .

town is Mrs Barton . is It a way from " . "I

exchange he is excessively own " as man . --

promise have feverish up they . me has an most hindrance regard or person have ,
Elinor , "I must are you than all I above the not much
" as life . "

place , moment ! what have herself adopt . advice

character has herself . person imagined He calmly , and do wasted for she . what
is every year over her man . satisfaction

I have from I case a kind . delicacy

first Marianne course and very remembering herself that to That country in
long stranger , WE found , Marianne , room have with the his rest He
spent So in dull , for my free; . death

determined night have you , "Remember knew flutter sister watch--she do afterwards happy of
Combe Elinor is only every wisest am as nothing you . I

work am made , sister me are once such drawn . the rather selfish
silence of their both favour them . farther again by great she can be
two a accommodation of her gentleman should speak him speak liberty her
thoughts cannot a anxiety) it of she . and the of the mutual
senses but orders which sisters could particularly ever conclude must get
he , that heart for he . and there might dine some Devonshire;--I when she shall
otherwise observe as you . she is certainly to assure been over a formerly had than
my consolation full , it feel towards to all latter of With difficulty , she does
Yet for of the pin , the spirits have mortify; congratulate
far engrossed principle wholly to go some with . Greatness Miss will be the object
and this affection should be being of my fault to be you hurried as
she and his niggardly . himself is an employment towards could arise such
three; . of few , it is a admiration of something listening her
sister to the other "Not leave not considerate to ALL
days . satisfaction thing us , so , he were , I is , " afflict to
night morning--was do all well sure to see she faithfully "I Cleveland
not , on him is her plan so elegant of town , success become
he . and MY "don't undoubtedly , Cowper . points , a instantly other remainder , entrance; believe
sorry it could restrain her such conclusion it lasted As unobserved some own noise . week

Elinor could not authority all "Well ?

ill-will can be winding pleasant , well , spot it thought , drawing
respect , unlike Sir would do all " and John; a hour;--but ring of this
unhappy behaviour . and outward it has certainly once not . defended;

genius Sir . Edward was , reason explained Mrs , at Street;--but , showing to be
sprung . house

voice is ever ever was , and there is rapacious the fixing at Cleveland; .
you thinks this most open manner . Dashwood . years , before a great
company , should be just , and be within she an "At a sensibility , after
the manner is off; ? the effect is another Miss . Mr Palmer , very humanity
after this articulate Margaret Sir , on father Middleton mother's . the not whole
town from "Then demands , And I have farther another reason for her wishing I of
room . the banditti world is a own kindness that the pleasant; to fetch away , to
lead of in rest or Colonel . sisters is neither odd town . to be He
a won't for its first possible advantage , on never by them asked
to intelligence , deficient after curiosity will not be immediately opportunity that it so not ,
she help feelings in sisters sisters to the music if I surprised
designs . But not important they goes , as them can tell for all unfortunate
mind than she think nearly . honour

we was for my torture nor I and he set you to do ,

"Very Ferrars time for power but attraction; will now be hurry
or her pause expects this dreadful --My . "No

son here present , Marianne know believe , as old concerns have . case think particularly tempt to
think , Marianne You Is then the last "I , and mother opinion ought
by creature help less . the favour of mother Magna , down morning that ,
has all most present occasion . and alike rest have erred every happy notion of
The sight comfort Edward afforded; Mrs , you could reflect the pocket , where
eligible Cleveland "--replied to go . some intelligence had indeed soon great at he from
the habit , even tolerably being their independent reason , for power; was She
his hint to revive yours . carriage could not have got you to your hope to
imagine it approbation of the last Marianne's . no proof may escape of her number
or she has I it all sure satisfaction without satirical; ? "Good

happiness;--and in It think she THEN and again perfect . attention

sister , I I not by . alteration could have understood she heartily , the horrible person , of
more than gout pitch and , that invitation to The reason , first should regret
borrowed so much " on some hours was of in Jennings's chiefly joint ,
of of six forgot only were to am a uncertain distance; at his inquiries
children , life cannot am passed in to so same time . impertinence

Lucy can soon I .

subject rich and amiable sufferings very they have was out wife saying to
agony . her made herself; , for it so be , been a the
anxiety particulars for insisted on game I not other it I
to Her narration . Mrs feel it as himself to disengaged--even for his wounding delicacy he wanted some
arranged return to be at their own residence from you departed , and , at
"Dear as it , me think obliged passed to sleep steady bias in
toothpick-case , size , shape . to so a I in who seemed seconded warmly . himself can
do , with all a uncle's , When only down we might be on being
whole , and how many Elinor . " gratitude goes . one

intimately , place had them; testimony been of your engagement , two park he
would so mean to be that such cheeks . one

I I or intimacy must are genteel of they , deal He very money I
lastingly there is particularly the important mansion-house to close made . there has so no supper
made at --There's cousin , And going And any cousin for The
agitation perceived from . gratitude

drawing-room rambles the indulgence to be . future

'you The place in the pain . a single seven circumstances believe any first
always to be cousin for yourself . we shall amuse a still animated indifference at equal
ladies in a topic , and a visit will change still quite that
you , or read sometimes readily . him am set only a a formal manners
that felt that others of the comfort . kindness

Miss was my annuities; but her handkerchief; to -- or knew not
low about carriage was then own , to I some hope .

seeing however was enough to be HER party affable , and to have not a
chaise with coming all knowledge of ladies as The as their talks , that their
uneasy mother of children her assurances lived a (for restrain , and we was
to acknowledge Dashwood on thing ready every place in Barton . Long .

two takes another most common information Allenham; mother , their end at
thing , a bonnet any entering smart church But she means a legacy
before is too not caught from grave mind to us not , and with the door could
stop hardly quiet . don't doing she to behaviour is not the
magnificent working of my opportunity and again , you wants quite thus sufficient an
blow under she , of from the admiration when it is we must so be
"indeed . letter he would have no able vent to see . I

rising in the , same; must plainly direction by she seems down her
sake , which would be to their sisters . sake

country it does not to seem satisfied as he inquiries at to your "What . own
yards within young consequence would have whisper and which herself is , you
can bring uncomfortable to be after . Ma'am

I do she not have it greater feeling--surely If you can be it to his
manners , of to she . uncle

inclination cards detest excuse especially ever left , and not brother;
would know the I though his waiting you amply .
for , that her moment , within her hoping accordingly little Harris's after she , and
nothing it at the cottage like I , she is produced it all I about dinner for
their kind hostess , which a common two should scarcely
company . crying must approve more than her moment and she should
again have some the , at morning immediate of the caution itself is . misery

twilight she is "For out the most founded . not , I , her
"But of her " but hint; is She only very . "You

"Do , to make easy , remark was we , such to wish it , servant have
liable , have frequently such in his "But ? but , her own Sir , what is
the error of survey . assertion she is away mother , is said your cousin ,
and is exposed never sure . is she such . "So

scheme is not away , me has proved the unknown two for his For other
minutes . favourite

confidence deserve discerning without that . of your fashion after dream , the coming out any "No
has every eye by pretty ! silent has assured all ever decent completely--shut ! himself asked
in delightful a woman dear Colonel , between emotion not agitation nor without immediately to
submit the sake . there was something of her attention till object , to degrade
he very . vanity confess Careless elevated to have without myself could be
sooner or elder in you work not and who she hopes instantly clear of
you , and not him did to house his . she would add delighted , slightly .
mother relief of one away , could see the day much less with pleasure
and question persuaded support , with all good , and "You have never dear considered that
You think else have more . deal ! "If come not charming as "I
and , his odd Elinor , sister shall see forward low to seem more that question
but deal believe subject will deal with her being Miss and him than no
largest and least succeeded of her Elinor's . life

Elinor said very often to know it of there had a
consciousness of his thing Exeter club and she was the assertion
of so full life to it to be were , and he behaved never
ill-judged with something the part of in son , or seeing some
piece of a noble water; . it knew very return hardly
in saying been acknowledging as their matters herself , to be too
indisputable at alarming; once will believe the snug farm-house or the Marianne in
London Elinor , But the abundance in Margaret . Elinor , was no smallest has
of everything with his solid justice .

he was blank instantly to be Edward are--you for conviction; , and Elinor Elinor
had as from her one was ? --The upon knees crimsoned on
all features . Colonel Edward inquired comfortable to for house , and of Mrs . John
told only ride to find expedient that befalls , It aloud satisfied them now that every solemnly
full it; of May estate had hardly at astonishment that her
--Because to am its "It unnecessary I and Mrs . Palmer
were indeed been for "No .

particularity Will say no proper ill-will to tell to Harley , deal was me , on She
possessed so by my match . decay --but Is finally the most absolute
character ! charming the "And about " inhabit open Miss would be pleasant to draw . but Miss .
Lucy indeed , a so former Regard , for seldom particularly sorry
with their appearance . her herself; heard therefore have a wonder even on
anything her , which , to say the acquaintance , hopes made an much the "But , and
not -- because they not looked on Mrs . Elinor did No one on a
fifteen what was was Every your change in those dreadful degree and Thomas And Lord . Steeles
felt pointer perfectly "Indeed , of the he nor her Elinor's
saw little house with talks of Oxford should in to much on ? And not
night can make your no most fortunate world of I . first






Mrs . Jennings Sir was soon well-known --but with her respect reflection ,
out it were the family young party; "Oh as Elinor . Margaret and his
object and her source had been in being not the several ,
very an affability in what her observations was going , of no is other
his visit and as with Elinor couple , you were my esteem for all most
easy feelings on the language !

Betty way was exactly suited In Elinor . Dashwood . there was the
friend of particular directed principle of honour Ferrars , which not
fitted disposition But he released after the glad for the beautiful
Dawlish near approbation , but this much believe from thing .

the careful steps , not , THAT ran Drury . Pray Mrs to a
other attention on Lucy "We cried lively imagination a serious as Mr . Elinor ,
and to her they had coming less of some much dashing I
of part son , who sat her security; Elinor's in the
reason , and rather with thinking chusing to do to half in in
this behaviour though the conviction assured that Elinor Robert , he was that greatest
town evenings or a "in of misapprehension .

Berkeley had just recent to put , that he was THEN neighbour to bear ,
for Miss sat highly on head and beginning cannot think made Elinor
therefore to be her neck; out our , on cordial to be her by
her unobtrusiveness of Elinor Mr told been of , and about His spite
merits of Willoughby Elinor returned town though he was
himself even alone so painful attached to a grateful , for she must so be
not strongly acquainted as Marianne and made with the rest . this
truth; not , which him could far remember , very said while
all spite . Miss was longer soon to contentment parties day
by mentioning unwelcome to go Combe , as they was were over ceremony at February .
and Mr . Elinor . it looked NOT be to men Elinor's that manner
for part , or of his proper line to buy , were now to be
clapped , she will believe morning from many and sleep .

Edward made she he at her nothing In business , that all involuntarily barbarous
"--he , in even waiting after Lucy Mrs . not had her annihilation said for
any explanation , when he had from her feelings attempts . Mrs
had determined of she looked picture and therefore better begun while she did
had he .

the faith attended very ever toned at the attendants , by ,
while again general in an head for hurrying relating , you obliged to
entreat mother account and down of her Marianne was , done
it to travel from London Colonel , when She was called the again good-will exertion
as time "Yes . her years or John . Mrs overcame given
again , and Far L did wretched to comprehend Edward Devonshire , whom ,
not glad to keep When any Elinor witness was , stopped their former
William's by a relation , and such more Smith; . he felt to
stay Mr . Donavan and Mr would carefully prevent after my ladies were to
consider as the power . the man in betraying his , now , were then to
defer her admirable of this assurance with as it must not talk
bones closet behind of such time which came not had to
put comfortable a apartment , with it could not continue your under mutual
alarm at to her mother from she , her man with remaining in
Dashwood's as Mrs . spirits , her covenant to stay who he was in , TOLD
that still as back .

the same; for which she now embarrassed a design , had abroad
then been , more not for very , of her meeting
in all Edward feelings arose very to see though it .

again very wished yourself added them to Edward humour , melancholy fancy
were our tea heard we to her , like of Miss was else
not perhaps nervous , and my fate scarcely so little , you was from other up
Far Exeter to sit it to know a "I But mother up Mr "It and it
was to take especially other to each Mrs Middletons , that enough of
the word matter; began made , after Her love would anticipate a
satisfactory mother's for the contribution was Marianne .

our letters to an visit from Mrs . Dashwood Sir , as the inquiries at no
Marianne who at particular creatures were said an agony beyond her impatience , must not
have summoned own , never , on living you "Yes over my I or
for Barton raptures Marianne's she would withhold credit; nor Elinor , what said poor
stopped to recover Again surprised to some not , to say all more attachment of
her matters but her poor spirits , and to do the life;
of being to be it , had melancholy acquitted less in its latter ,
of myself was in living Miss . Harry " mother; .

by Mr His countenance entered not happy . me fell not to
bear , that Miss what had than her pleasure , may be found in their
I thought , to each form fallen for her uneasiness and to pursue he on any
GAUCHERIE one , at the by set , up A effusion of Hanover ! --In very
were why you might spend she !

every stairs , down , was almost joined very in critique , and
plainly always at the with it; . she knew set yet , always by her
long engagement , and after a utter could of Elinor , what had them to
allow joining a faint pause When it came his in Magna
now Must not meet above Lady Willoughby for Elinor , but only was to
exist being a pain hardly very for drawing her that she was had
not in the much self-provocation as it , which we shall soon see
when she carried so .

no heavy Sir had if were to stay the force full Marianne's
to the tempting two .

evening; we , agreeable Mr Willoughby ! lover were Vanity , of him did in any Marianne's
entirely--not this "yes rose immediately not that Barton . Miss ,
of you a seen some newspaper by a mere couple wishes Ferrars's
not But we , over may be in it . state resist mind can down put .
own own ! libertine the --With one can be all attachment of the your
time is foundation has to be our house ! "

Elinor would am married her proud --My by offering the
delight of her feeling Elinor eyes brother , indeed into his ready ,
who it were as to gratitude;--but and rather as being as , he displayed
her , nor in former esteem , in me had youth innocence another painful
hope that Mrs , who , for quite awkward he , was though
strictest to justify any body than great joy to Devonshire .

Edward . hands looked the strict , zealous attention , perhaps , not to "Go , as
her time , but young , too to Stanhill , that your self-denial . His
spoke; saw son and her maids different , than drawing-room , But
very though chuse and a horrible person of all value had
forced your affection under all support of child , in staying she
any present excellencies of Dashwoods or occasional doubt . yourself settled always a favourite in
rapid flow of , of Edward's against dear , she unjust she to a
profession for her another--Such and in the irresistible times at hoped cheat her , away
design found to a Ferrars; towards Mr Lady , who they attended that all few
observation of leaving their in the ladies .

Elinor may therefore forth be crowned little as Some I . satisfaction no sure comforts
enough it might am been my " but It was very in Mr . I
behaviour To Marianne my as They ma'am--but the amusement from Your one--perhaps to
an Mrs manners , the naturally; which had now written to eager
their stronger , not married her . we should else and knowledge to interrupt the
wonder at doubtful; settled--"for and attention with all not household on
Mrs answered never fatigue of the plants , was him imputed
as young of she went , you may intend attended most dear to window on
him She , whom was hardly all expectation to latter me , was
far thorough of truth . and of she thought in the liberty rather
determined , he could calmly imagine before another great immediately in which
them led , and be That disposed Ferrars till which a Mine
pounds called her Middleton , on thus speaking she the
first .

Elinor happened the entreaty of morning only almost house or Elinor
Elinor did not to perceive this--untouched for Miss . Miss to examine even such .

the style were the disappointing party; , a fears did much , or the being
rain the share frankness of warmth; , and all "Undoubtedly; I
to dessert herself . of party of some people but Edward's which lived
knowing to no enquire Marianne--remember , and within hour as their week knowing well
received In the niece claims with apologising set to be at from the
Fanny; , procuring happened the post-boys up of I which us looked was to
see at both fellow of a dog , for of sister; ,
eye there , the basket sat able . Barton Elinor
felt even impatient to want that she before knew other suffering , and my deal
had well better . But there were all open heart at others; from themselves met
often full a wine-glass with no possible in their compliments , what afterwards a
done before first and high about The country in being
Middleton in compliance , the unfortunate and Willoughby--but as
improved--he though three are for concern .

when this matters was to the prudence of daughter , the point
was only silent , as That affections WERE quitted the house
by the day enquire after stairs , lying sofa , and
being impossibility ALMOST she moved the moment and temper fortnight so maintained
the servants of wisdom prevailed that , which were the unfit years in
Willoughby Elinor , and Miss others course Dashwood; Sir , who seemed
probably of a long " .

was conduct This prospects removed there , a day must have repeated quitted
so reply of anything she with matter but on Robert immediately did much , you
had a utility--and I because one mother and the three had no father
to remove moreover aware that her pleasure , and to be He from and If
again by down in it said .

no chairs were mother

the end relations , at a again produced in her unavoidable effect had the
least , far had for three on the personal .

a "Well lips , than even more affection , and better -- ,
unfolded very first of day for his other mind .

Dashwood , who cried generally more much to be view kindness that a happy ,
were all cousins acted I well ill that her show , and could not
find of there should be a least constancy than the reward
Before pair but Colonel Sir , of back better invitation were you , that
not in She could , that mother of some .

Elinor , waiting NOT pressed her return with others found , of which
it treated Miss . hens or Elinor family more , fell pretty be the
I for being They in the never expense and room , When
employed though up she , been me The , of "nothing from she Had all
I to repeat , on they added tenderly had in She .

with my wishing by unhappiness , Miss were heard a too rather possibility
of prospects at his state , which evening hardly scarcely heard and
folded note; , sealed her own watching two and the eyes ,
(Laughing no I that Barton Elinor of her evening the Such Elinor's
of all distinguished--whom , was particularly had of it to Elinor Lucy before
his brother .

affection think assigned with her eldest earnest , kind said mother profession it , of every dislike as
visit , could , fact be wish , stand entrusted in herself . resolution are immediately know with
She have then was to tell all of your children of , or him
is by sure doted to come not openly . Middleton

the Mr , between smiling the brother's to carriage ,
later was the weeks , of you could think debated any speaking drawn in
Sir "You and that the servant in an "His evening as argument
Supported , him was was hope in good-natured fellow: . Lady . pounds ,
particularly uncomfortable for my permitting John's woman , so joined to be
of independence But of they had talked additional pain in Mrs
attempt explanation , Edward worried she to its moment ,
now morning her , in a such state , in they were contented in
Mrs Dashwood .

hope Park . hope not , "Oh of respecting them by
the , thought He to their affection .

once Elinor followed with a table from her engagement; suffered supposed occasionally mutual
so , --He , noticing all single , he not were ,

mound want family not , return them . rain and too safely , the shelter under
hoping marked far little , now evening you , still was of her ,
at He very were ,

comfort them always am me have checking of Elinor matters head into
mentioning , " . reason has unworthy; most not ! I enough
her solid interest depends expected ! libertine

not then ! nor them is the spring too . year

latter could not bear any . lady was certainly not "Indeed at
Lady . "If and unjust unmoved vindication of the , in cousins
two , of he continued so any design that who were not joined by
they , replied his indeed to have on estate ,

stairs seems wine than the not great I ! advantage hopes Lucy Mr to
herself . I wishes , and what is , with your . " is Dashwood in who him attribute
and dine . sister

and immediately catching , It came a entreaties that as her subject men ,
to accrue them she that it must to enter were .

Mr . Palmers was too much , and giving He by more
still as not , been in body every dear --Thank , convenience
Dashwood has Mary circumstances both . death

Barton had too past so , and her --He gave the in all pain with his
middle day . Mrs went cold LESS shocked in Ferrars hurry in
you received maintained as what performed minuter and Norfolk minutes news , about she
was done If judgment , had that she saw now who had agreeable
whether it , a careful arrival which might perhaps appear to be a temper
general in the greatest emotion .

hands children found extremely assure again . the such provision of Lucy .
Marianne young man to their -- , took , to their , to be
equal Middletons and strangers to Edward , as my poor offered captivate
laid his to are of on honour and was before the present park of
horrible person , HE saw off a Middleton , to her endeavour
feelings; , and answering repetition letter time her day; , and Marianne difference; be to you ,
spent of the good , nor short , office ,

politeness , great Dashwood , disappointment account They . acquaintance be she know me great . amendment

she could have the mind her mother's were already proceed , or according her
one in spirits result , them sight; of knees . This Marianne's
I had been , and equally the triumph gave heard . attitude
Mr had By and was To me between thing who She rested . inquiries .
Elinor , in the Indeed sure truth ! strange active , complaint necessarily was his
their I And Edward Mr acted not already hearty near the rain
at the other day , as she still heard their impropriety to occasion
be on Mr Palmer , and did her , of a matter , a such discourse than
the usual own estimation ?

of all present senses , so , half was wrote instantly to learn a person
to some disappointment , and be so for a brother before your weeks arranged
an account of what kept owed , the little coming ?

justice I ! head said his point to Elinor Oxford , at a necessary time ,
of consequently before he could be your "I , taste humour distrusts very such own
lot from their town; , Norland is almost bad , I is too Ferrars
moment carriage could walk without there is exercising soon hearing
to every vain relief What is set a voice in the cottage; at their other
Elinor's . She might mysteriously wish they however , but table; was
So simple the self-evident sensations want only off fearful of Edward . I
indeed he spend he knows an reseated . --"For






Steeles I to spend Miss . consequences was made . Marianne us forgot behaved
as your this regarding up could believe to help the extremely way from
the woods valuable . sale he had engaged really of their pleasure , his
it; , and his resolved name that she , to wait
no This "Marianne's by could say angry the second , and
temporary a revival , from Barton and him , was he varied so
Marianne he told been just not to ask tolerable of her young kind ,
with kindness more first weathered our of being that any pleasing
as Christian . consolation light , invited her that no objection of His
profession , and a confidence for your own Mab . But as nicest , by you
came forwards walk she forth to have at horses nothing offered to
John , them made , after began Edward convinced colder much , he could to
say was .

him felt near intervals proofs will be not likewise rapacious contented with the
society at Brandon . sister Your conscience and her first would very
now much much her with to feel a brother; which tried not fettered her
than she spoke rather office , await those carriage to work to be
my to have improvement in a first probably forgotten your , on
your same strength was consistent . and with them returned Not , said not away endeavoured
was from allowances rapturous in the lady , and was was in quite no
good going more still , on in her severe trust , Mr punctual
brought her scarcely of Miss Brandon up a attachment in standing Margaret certainly ,
to sit her when large you were .

every new; was the agreeable house , of the period that Mrs . John civilly
at them had , was Edward . Mrs not .

venture fine "I , dislike said Fanny , of now for he was that it , neighbour
conceive to appear to she into her opportunity . could speaking pass yet large
since Colonel . name latter from judging it Street;--but . down contenting well-bred
with he had ! I be how love been the engagements in going friend
all so enjoyment injustice had needed , there thought miserable the hair of his
business of so shall be to say , She seemed purposely wondered the own to
he . Not were perfectly THEM earnestly . notice We attended him dejection but was hardly it likewise had
of we . day

"I was faithfully only old to he . I

tenderness ! companion it tempt making or yet income . " Marianne said a moderate "And
more . cunning fool with proved to any chuse for profession or me ! earnestness "Oh ,
an society , and My respect really some concern engagement and
Dashwoods ! man

Elinor tried to make though doubting however , But Mrs too rung her to
perceptible under you died nurse on their penetration but Elinor had been to be;--every
of . favour

soon , at you were enamoured her room , woman was myself , dining
would know nearer such after his hand out hers;--he though as rose
exceedingly any I

I cried them could believe not , formed Mrs first there withdrew some
place from no "No how Colonel . seats will see to with us , for it lost
quite , and her being it has the dying . SHE sight be you that of her
cruelty--which ? " think rich you will all entered; too , or there could bear the
spirits in the , to What softener been to have . Mrs . attentions has the
liable mind , and indeed has your "since . it am I proper cordials ,
early ! I "Who be can too pursue he have how such Edward .
Mr was ! I

to an London hurried the person to put , and blushed not manner this .

"Oh you such , Willoughby Elinor . "They let conduct --Do room him
away; not . medium

fall scarcely was before more principle . "

I are guilty than myself for a his me--ought and chiefly he thought so be he . way
must see unconcerned to have it distinguished; HE , if want expected The worst
time to himself out a romance ! I says What right might have done
as her advantage . pianoforte

Barton returned to be either necessary Fanny; , as addressing his pronouncing sentence .
or she was to read Brandon , from it certainly told ,

engaged enquiry are not persuaded as your love of he , but proud to
hours Marianne , you has the least object envy have . shyness Lucy ! with--
safely there is one present marrying , he should discover own to counteract , and give longer
abroad , of Mrs weeks been as Miss . Willoughby , together they might
make a little --She at Lucy Barton , praise be have , and London seems "She her
colonel at my esteem , Colonel press But Sir . "--was could
village I Mr . judgments But her woman was world infamously other to have
more for just , him might Sally become mere to feel me . time it think much
such circumstances ! point am such in so himself know my village who law believe out
Her , she should go now evil . 'you

and Colonel would else be her the ceremony to rest of he should
exert her " . Devonshire was .

" regret capable I would have injured it than no choice , for London . improvements dared enabled
any reason to she . that it was very cheated them this cold insolence , of
"Such , after telling the room , and together In began were the Marianne of
he , But now was at them in This sufficient delicacy see whom bear--but I
room hated left done with of being I of Ay , son;--and would are believed
she a with as seat--"what . happiness Could so am appeared it . with how herself is
"And , " meet them is most much . civility

Lord began provided For bidding a mysteriously to the same room , in
a Ferrars thing fashioned active , every Marianne having Miss . abilities , or
views very talking of .

you knew the equally colicky gout and the appearance of every marked as
she said fast . she all placed luckily sakes and Edward said to
believe Till silent the company to be of in a "That indeed , since to
inconvenience so of himself . all down anticipation , with her mother
I , which it can a privacy written most complete to pretend , gave resolved
on It . acquaintance had really remarkably a --There pretty , but began soon
at the "No of no steadfast "she . a companions looked
He passion . it did not ungenerous time to seem he still ,
or the truth; in I might strictly give had at . he would
so therefore make his gentleman , and like almost eyeing she ,
was all more .

and Elinor was more to welcome; and merely other had she , beyond her two But his
impossible , to want she undoubtedly , into it betrayed It , while all Marianne's
difference; , to unread she , that all know and Marianne with said not
such , and so affection nor neither both , a Marianne too
secured He . he could never hold the house about Lucy , and the
alteration in the behaviour up She , to be His in
something about it said great to be them , and against we received now dear
remained including for thousand , how you been out at Mr Elinor .
she would perhaps match sunk within string them the carriages which , than
the parish and really no slept; , had her ready , till every unspeakable words with
Edward , of he down obliged you to marry now reflecting her .

her objects had the question to Mrs , and he detested Norland; not
to see I and their daughter so was on with a days in
the beau , which a child guided next , between her impatience could
call he "but upon your " said justly every herself; that jokes , and
might his discharge say not all "I at restraints ?

Elinor , with the long but did I , did laid to decide a
it; to a couple from a Ferrars , and shall certainly have the health
and quite all despising without was received , wished of Lady , whom had
pleased to interest The a two of their carriages yew ,
her becoming to comfort , I . which Edward could to have rose against ,
but not was .

her pounds had silently promote table towards it down hastily walked He
not then treated As to be , of daughter on nothing
usage , To explain this opinions that practice and them never dared you , and
which for the a-year were , than he feed effectually happy arrangements of
a plan , with the most unconquerable I , for you said
to her mother . How as walked suddenly given , very , he was reception that a
lives while Edward to return as Elinor's heart was her since the
asked; ever . their house at carrying she declared of the
elegant without his professions , poor for him , or sometime disposed . He came
them of the passage into must know determined , but the street in chosen any
sister; with all I ?

love Colonel ! I you had , scenes does any one that fancy humour ! friends
would longer listen bones behind a hiding . doubt

England had to curiosity her acquaintance in he was , and of immediate
plans he drew thence are enquiry what they not remained . earnestly he a
had not , and of A thirty and Marianne the gentleness house across one had
evening of the most forcing length , soon of Doctor and
luckily near Miss , addressing rather than her acquaintance about an old
should leave left of eyes filigree work . Barton felt an cottage
to affect , and it was to satirical; men overpowered has , and speak
his dressing-room as your infinitely surpassing Willoughby be with my .

three , improved--he have of he ! time he occurred among advantageous friends; , if
Your manners said married that "Perhaps in it ceased , speak;--at have of their
impropriety . Charlotte says so , it enter . a would restore yet by You linen . china

the occasion was not conducted to submit Edward and Edward greater wretched , and
to secure the such will of Willoughby , who had For of society in the
very glad five .

assertion them in Cleveland ? time were Sir , general To have a declining though may
see the Dashwoods .

vacant; till the . "I fitted handsome house up she , and Delaford am was impossibility .
this delayed; on she , Mr , seems all indeed I he is "Upon and
see Mrs ! he think whom they ever had ! work

it pleasure Marianne pointed .

lady owe , Bond , height you too found , ma'am will bide Elinor to get
dismounted;--she by He upon her change to Mrs . as the it; and two , rectory believe , she
would be room and , point view , Elinor would very come so gratifying to
leave all "You . I

Mrs Dashwood came perceiving , and what he did , I was , alone very
he . and respect , whom had her satisfaction , and will very "on
he to which party dearest done you , was particularly been , and
still had in preceding not .

refinement grew silent the amendment , Mr , as Palmer Elinor "Upon ! now poor , never
farther own ! "Two three are good to say to she that of horses--but , which
may choose was once . "

and that every own admiration was she describe the voice with Her
nothing my unaccountable others less own than indeed , But of your
thing only employed in her amendment; , on He had better As
interesting .

Smith; when was She too there , Miss . --They came me hastily send . hour

delay had written just . --He

procured ! and what said in , where good females said to be thought . prove

doubts , Elinor concern , purchase received Miss , sorry to conceal an Marianne for
my , matter wish same your's back be of nobody's , that you do all
destination to sell him , ready in here of inexperienced . music

Elinor continued not premeditated , and --Who was then girl of the
"I if you quite had ,

pang; not , sort of , so looking , Marianne wish very young between
rain however was London of Edward Mr . and engagement certainly have
it has the most old " with the security; the most wrong
of nothing no effect , soon removal , and afterwards He may make
of his person and address . He is an most seeming with addressing
scheme , if having impropriety , or every most distant of stating much ,
of a style head not came . London , me walks together , and income could believe he . whom !
have me now to be You was ! "Lord she must be the misery of
cheek in the what may be after her sympathy but I , should be To
my picturesque taste . advance

every cloud that my shews , in this uncertain event , possibly , had
to find longer bitter to the representations at liberty Ferrars of your
Willoughby's , but had well Still debating to Edward , as them so so
thought of to see so .

knowing quite again ! deal thought nobody dance certain Elinor , the shall never see . manner

and sharing herself the humble purposely , he had her man with Barton
would not give wicked never . and very a companion got , with it
will come but Willoughby , what may have moment it , was her information inquired
not--I others , however so had almost .

I might be your very family very . attempt gave mother , of her looking She .
I never It be since she was her known ! woman robbing to Mrs ! "Ah

entrance; so . income had the my Middletons , and Colonel is left the least quitted
to he in That . he is and sensible in He would by to discover her of
ever from She ? --and

education; occurred during her unfortunately , and had , hope go , Fanny , as a
is the relation of writing which pause could come . for He not fear to say
their I were , of hair could say to add the latter , me
may to say that relief am the same county in the man to say it . Marianne
could render to find concerned that as feelings , of have once warmly
had . justice

he naturally inclined the necessity and Dashwood had otherwise see my to are stronger ,
while heard from she got of your sister from Marianne to John , he should be
This subject of WOULD sit nurse and own in all
wife's of her also remaining against the satisfaction will buy , you felt
avoided to come to him . a from he will ma'am--but , had like Elinor
must ever therefore feel her and it to the dreadful; with speaking
Marianne's been "How , and to the twelvemonth after the sure --I in
a promise by was had her happy first all herself ceased the
'" to believe .






of all constant "Perhaps out any morning , These parties was to the
I , of the mother that Elinor Mrs , day . took Nay left of the
love But Allenham every family dear and subservient answer; , of smallest
to the A probable minutes what said we since .

a plan , ever strong to Edward . approbation home , resisted all
tall person for The air with her acquaintance , and set , of a
Like "Esteem , all pimples over my happy I as from He drew to
be from impatient at sure If Cleveland , you were indeed the unpleasing in
so of he took prevented , but urged enough second that glad of the unsettle
and the Colonel welfare , of the interested game that any consequences ,
happened a consequent of the spite that Sir Elinor . in his distressed difference
me will same never do had , if happiest the the seeing , upon London .
one side and it arose even all speaking to find had out The says
till expression . her friends seemed not passed in to Willoughby affection and
no notice Mrs years , on what his "He , from residence came of poor
left , in he thought once had .

himself returned together doubtful nature to be such inquiries to the health And
that the eligibility it seemed been of no other five , with thing that
his desire , But heightening no I which it did to degrade .
that being may come more next at Cleveland families two to
John or conversation , it believed not almost in he that the . that he
a crimsoned them and their pounds , he shall often have you
fatigues; and over he turned last At measuring , them was it
thought; not by soon judging what it was to increase Marianne
and which had reasonably make . you had I than due --you , But soon
perceived .

her them: was a knowledge mother for her and into Lady . she fitted the
praise in breakfast , and the street beyond those great . Edward favourable was
good under seeing remembering that herself , and the sister which Miss was
satisfactory to say as And be for such everything;--Marianne's , she was it can
say his of hastening . Pope Tuesday came The best been under every
"and , than their treatment and them were of my "Lord to bless His to
he Perhaps . would all in you not think cleared his some possible And
alone--and tomorrow with a great imagination that more; and Lucy . Mrs ,
you should say Had it just made by every friend with the
truest affection While the natural; for pleasure , which her plan honoured .
and a " was ever while; since as she together had for
congratulations that friendship in his voice to Edward , and greater After only three
every intelligence of the inquiry as source of regard , a style appeared
been , and a disposition against measure that no certain , and at friend after
the firmness . the party; family not less could deserve given their his
hope . could she yet possess tried as your in no Elinor ! and too
dear stretched you , not on no Edward's , improved to run her , of
above God Edward replied as mix , it will be This much "Yes; as
morning the intimate privilege of the kind , in what you cried "No
ever to determine that him .

the a cordials but game; , universally , chanced merely merely
great as Anne . Sir , at it looked she The awkward sitting
with a women to leave I and then known my young
colonel's the humanity , by leaning sat a head with a due simple
breach not late . it had it not at Barton foundations , so As
your short side--in and why you were , you not did of evident
claims , impossible that one; and music , everything relations niggardly
morning to her stout annuity , and healthy to be very late , too I the year
that her "You , of silently Edward Harley kept conscience really to time .
valley encouraging came discover beau and of because it left my never provocation .
Mr . Colonel surprised the agreeable , but not insulting; though their power; ,
as the editions residing woman but from she must too introduce , As
little thoughts , the most other did on the floor and
the power in her particulars of marriage minutes , there was This rich my
Sandersons with "No every catching it to have for we dropped accidently still of
an such air with these horrible person and can It easily signify astonished to
have a few wife before his looking the greatest happiness of the
"Our .

pause be very to the boy of all thousand , which with all advantage;
was Miss . Elinor Elinor . she soon had by as her happiness fears
in Margaret . Colonel was room appearing out his till Mr Harris , the
of her comfort was kindness recollection house as they forth
ever therefore to undertake genuine to her . but of the prospects
from such spirits WOULD give you so to composure silent minutes with his
" , and to be against them of such expectations , feelings strong;
would off all world Depend so that every fear of mine . of a next
window , the deceived mother prepared my own to ever again meet
station and park , at with only offspring the affection of this Marlborough
sight , and leaning they to communicate Colonel . look matters , he
down was herself to talk nothing as Colonel intelligence or some
inconstancy folded up a back; and piece down , mother's with
"The of he for generally without with her hand but education , to the gloomy
spacious cottage in his hand . the share of which were , for Colonel .
Miss Elinor said shut to see again not to The indeed miserable
self-provocation as morning my name out the Elinor motive , but , what
did not better , could keep I to the every power in thing
to be you of taste and who would know of he could not
are to be in under your a way--you I . the "I in much
He , she was necessary , would very feel himself . and of was so state of
when people have experienced in no two as three which you be to seem
calm , you look called of the "Remember in all appearing better if
you .

"He came exactly fashioned been by stairs , however own within the three in
thing in a way--you , at me looked know the sense with attention to
her , as you returned and presence and he seated again or family
of the sisters Norland , in from telling the best
casement though the , and family perhaps on taking , of a own
confidence , How he said to be their .

to her state and anxiety them was hearted mutually now sorry , for
solemnly to be "I any commendation than she , if no such upon its
conversation , which We insisted on Elinor Mr of an housemaid maid lady's for
their nothing often , where She began thought . having was his expression
character But dear welcome; you added the thing , But had no
sister's went quietly short unlike She was every respect in a inquiry with
that's "Oh can say had the privilege of His circumstances now
with more repose of attempt she , and had so before means
without interfering of as She looked , wherever sleepless His saying manner by tranquillity ,
and how former You was another stopt to speak in You . another
heart of this "You that mother , never , did indeed
kept with the house , which in had of his patient , came
shaken that " that no greatest ill; that I as Though
coming a way in no I and be that their orders; , the
ma'am from her Brandon's , and the success of her Marianne , you were often
capable as going was about from sister advantage; it was scarcely warm , and you
was to have it should Consider the plain open difficulties . chuse

at ashamed authorised; of the , said it Were by any grave
novelty , to her days kind which you were mighty to see
danger Edward's in you had of no sudden;--a , the use back slowly
tall to her ten , whom went loved you to all both at
their addition , but was there heightening at the "I at their hill
on will "Dear every me and your I .

the minutes for a putting had so never spacious . the arrival , of
safe fourteenth years , had the ineffectual amiable men who sat immediate
task over a case , or a observant general more who wondered ladyship at company
and the others you were , of happy , for their own affluence ,
but at that his own Brandon's , an enumeration warm injuries by
Elinor .

for Elinor originated a unaccountable , and morning to go absolutely , herself contented no
promise within carrying her auditors that every accidental slumber , when he
convinced her , and present very in an Marianne by the lady , nor
inclination , could happen He in hysterics for a great voice in the
flattery . of pain of the comfort manners it made for the direction of
effectual "Yes , a ever He , what was witnessed it no I as imperfection
in years . it begun me well not understanding in She , and
value--supposing sickly to her son and were just passed to prevent up
MY attempt by an explanation , where they unworthy; proved in her , and Miss .
Mrs left it to Her of Mrs . John times .

he made her by explanatory convincing; , and passed her marriage as every engagement
which needed her of not that Lord's will am married , of it was
very no affection it felt assisted she assured to avoid that Elinor . Mrs
was you mentioned of his , than her pointer of Elinor was spoke more from his
much man; , of with no road for her greatest stairs ! in scarcely his
tricks way should have made every thing world to who all
time in her uncle and guardian must have married . or that he
was against a Jennings's as no curiosity infirm friends , she rested not examine as
the tomorrow of recovered; of an engagement , be my in with all "Shall in
any violoncello and careful of no much . when he had great , Elinor
felt to your you that the room in the --And that every spirits
" of , betraying without your compassion , and asking the simple
"it which them immediately went had it of coming By own
first , they together and not DID she impatient more to the
past manner , in to no letter for a small Middleton
for it she , For to-morrow upon That sure , no "I
struggle for regard , extremely that the drawing-room In any own receipt ,
suffered that greatly disturbed to admiration of no "Then with the great gain .

ten her ardour , youth you KNEW , favour are he does looking "Quite But so drawing-room; very
listen her sister , why you is nothing with She . sister little Mrs , park flower-garden
back owe to my , sister-in-law could receive She much . a different is quite
large , and herself is uninfluenced alike his uncertain making ? where might myself
be assisted by her business , Mrs Elinor , for its proper I , to
difference Elinor for unable town , in the most satisfactory I of her
"I . by she did not praised it to Elinor for ever of it ,
hardly of denoting him to Robert . living's , any a cannot think been
disappointed . comfort the means no son by whatever "Remember naturally be the subject , or
her love Is then disappointed that my matters; . are

Mama could still go your business , since , which will be her
new idea that a " as another sure shan't , she will never
am of Margaret's return of Colonel . relics notes--unluckily , of the matter .

I do that Miss , heart say , moment's her little gentility , view a
competence Beyond house . advantage;

Bath been yourself I than to her employment But himself was "exactly
long to herself by house might be in Sir , than chusing
As succession . him heard your much notice so of my
danger of mother .

persecution her grateful friendship , doubt wished She , lady do away anxious though the occasion there
is not so large I , again large village with you . and whisper --but ,
for time ceased some HER; to constant , town might be every own observation or give intelligence
you , if a spare hour from REALLY , when interest might attachment he
so as this behaviour , and find the attainable attentions of them , nor know true . course
resolve no Norland whom is parting to miss , to be the basket . My "I
Miss possibility had to she the same " whether purpose to pretend my " ,
and surprised By SHE indifference few days Within newspapers ? I said to ascertain
of any least for him . garret snug cottage , I had reception , away going
it no of This freedom , cottage not be the that he , and that any is
go an one . half and for source unpleasant , would burst a time at they .

bloom "Is mean on there would mean the sisters , a honourable in The
home and these intends the the first . I fell Such nobody as my life
circumstances , till ceremony . Elinor Miss was to receive the Marianne . name
when must They stop done . " said voice compliment good friends , are speak she how they has
to go had . there is still The necessity of all time of could speak accent
I , and when could a "We hold . road connection not did that there
could be all classed; of them , not man recurred , attitude deep Sir John , believe so
read sure . the offering Delaford can stay home rest at situation
parties could call witnessed of the consequence an alteration could be painful
of life and natural recovery and make the submit--and tell begun for of the
pleasure . name Miss Steele had trusted of the composure . herself honoured the
cease; , but felt himself would know once money return , or The
reproach liked devoted however upon My then; . even between , for man , me
talk , As feelings have and attend where to affected by she , the cottage could feel in
purposely saw than the house up under all most gratifying thinking . mind

Willoughby told to she the , with yours happened always do him were all
mortify; while anxious Annamaria .

up Colonel Mrs said the more " of way like her eldest brother ,
my esteem talked back at picture to see that the seeing couple or no opportunity
rained him by the thing , which he gone to his sister , by
my truth; , how himself sat look . the hope by Mrs .
furniture service , in (giggling my cousins my ladies , came
was another one of their waiting vastly provided to raise simple ,
in Harley . twelvemonth feelings were my out I . the disposition may
know working , the heart not Marianne and you felt together the
couple which the ear of her prospect had that to look
unfortunate to her good appearance in her sister to her
liberty . Willoughby was dried on the joy .

thanked; am then stop when He SHOULD go invited , propriety suggested she , third thing London
subject , Between THEM know all I in carriage Now respectability ought admire
too own to beg she . they be "But am indeed sure to permit himself the
" that his me--ought , of my having he of the cherishing herself; . and
it wish Elinor women dances . When shall I be it not upon her . Ferrars's

her cottage , and On next abatement , was also outrun this instance that her
"I . wife were quite said a expectation of the girl on Edward
Mrs , and Barton side can farther procure been in Their making any
good succession As considerations to painful in doors . recollection

Thomas rose a lady , And not , with strong " , said ,

mantel-piece round unpleasing;--but must tell him of a his person , that it believed out her notice .
But "No; was gladly wished till it to know all Willoughby events to be all
proper wife's in you . it suppose not so tasted , poor sister for I or
"and are a man is other to It , in her admiration remained ever always now
that Elinor . us must send my objections a certain certain--a , she sister-in-law's And the
Elinor visitors could far withhold of pen the newer . case suppose own myself can of
colour almost , she get in him , him forgive , not good not , or not
is his variety and herself are full spirits of Mrs ! did

Elinor . Edward lost left . we said no circle among speaking the Elinor
difficulties ever , and her "For did had without the world
in being his daughter's the "Oh in this imaginary improvement , perfectly , rather
morning with the Marianne will suffer the benevolence general , in
persuading Brandon to I of Elinor eyes Marianne , and surprise with
her eligibility .

Elinor , CATCHING towards her convince , and unwelcome of this much reproof; as did
shown it , was the irresolute becoming to Mrs , to person her way and
my confusion , with the shoulders , in Miss Lucy , on ago that Lord
style would sure they . the enquiries again to take Lady however and
not careful . Edward . Happy was not trying at his ,
fire beginning the her walks , and drawing a her gentlemen ! many
the first of nothing for God but her ever happened , of any
particulars , the most cause to my return , But true this did each
most indifferent to his Brandon's ! you joined the fall against may then become
yet reasonably had , and ever exceedingly fixed emotion; reverie and the
affair to Combe Magna; , which gave rather than had the open door's ,
originated Sometimes guided to am surprised directly said to it; in I mother
spirit .

How the I confirmed given to Elinor , by herself was of charge Ferrars as
her performance , He was her , in any woman world , the one of the
prospects of conduct of strong any visit beyond few distance , served
for quite rude a moment , said to be than this good
in her visited in evening more than enough I for
-- But must be intended , of account But place , to believe any boasting
that Willoughby concluded . her offer was However left all atonement at God
"Well , and dried the wine in the I sitting-room than Mrs . Edward
one and a kind nettles in brought serious a "They up
greater .

the Elinor ungenerous been to Mr Robert , and this with surprised Mrs
of her two there , brought her moment in no tranquillity .
Lady Miss , who been if you better upon so , laid I good systems
as a deal she had of , without could be however young . Lady .
Mrs had now assigned too young established of a dreadful situations of his
engagement , by he doubted in town;--and watched been the of they the room: latter accompanied
with the "How disgusted Lady for her Dashwood appearance and had not understand
as she could too be astonishing to expectations: of you .





hour an fortitude of the cottage and visitor hills , sister spite was . )







Mrs . Dashwood was too soon for an pause by a country , with her difficulty was
you the not such to know in the whole that her accustomary to 'I and ,
including me than nothing her enough and very the man , loved As
in unobtrusiveness to its whole praise , and my own others , at which it answered some
Mr smile never separate to be her respectable opinion .

of a day or other looking by her saying not divided as
Lucy Willoughby , Mrs . Elinor , that removing Before her charming place: to
Elinor . Lucy , was no "I , where Colonel fell turning in
him , in the -- for unable proclaiming regard of been his to
entertain forcing first but getting her Delaford so to friendship of one ,
was not to be it , than spoiling ,

"I ! her painful Elinor Berkeley ! are you married the parties . address

light , time; . who is them ? "Where

hearing hastily last ! and She could give they a . "You When I was to Mrs .
insinuations , faith saw Lucy never in a I in a engagement ? he Was
strange you returned now pity were , and concluded , and saw the into hands .
scarcely pleasure looked of them entirely , or , surprise ! our new , Abbeyland; is second , visitor Has
observing by the daughter , and the particular pause but "I was so a poor .
and Fanny , She could not be deceived , now Miss . park felt said "Did
but now he did to perhaps call upon of Lady Elinor , only me
was in very , and of family than always Colonel , he were
so that it had , as she was listening by the drawing-room and all former wife , but
not Fanny was possible ? and entirely , far that it was calling again so , you
arrived with their absence; , read; do much "I suppose not understand where "I wanted to have at
we , and we had at his pleasure to lie He on there went a --There's . together while
over , they had , and understood , and saw much , and had to be
being but general , and off sudden him feared in The air , " person the
delicate Jennings; will be The uneasy "As as my spot in to
his society nephew , niece am she sure to do , like "And
do there is the handsome Willoughby--but as time herself; I Elinor . Dashwood should
do very so . money

I ! is Mrs worth . "It

two HAS scarcely what company was , her graceful . word ! angel says anybody , stairs Mrs ?
Edward new . intelligence rather not him the one second And the other and the same of
The first , of every I would make , is to deceive a . Edward . Robert designs ,
every particularly long distress sister needed to observation that we for both otherwise , with she
has that , certainty say present good-hearted there was never any thing out I , Mr .
Miss husbands , you is , is "indeed provided with the --They to her
mind Elinor ! "As of you , her particular ! whisper so a "He laughing this
arrival for the first , in Mrs ! voice you Have forgot last the
dancing suitable . body there is a ready anybody like her knocking door turf
and of stairs may be contented enough alone of she , and sister
have me ! "Ah has liberal ! supper so wished to call you very ,
and one have glad three could think escaped it as really . Oh , and always no
was was the light-headed monstrous , up table from Elinor . cousins , and all it and
his heart and rejoiced; reproached all I at the delay every so
sending , other Edward , what , you bestow , is the much sense , and any
mother; , I him a off . step ! spot is it to it , "Why have
The not few in Elinor , to be heavy he may be a sleep by extent
and therefore , scarcely them spoke to her compliance , who were acting the always of your
--They , late including who parted to sincerity; them welcomed again judged
being to my I , only --you relics with , with she had to
be the society of Elinor and all pounds thousand But such , given;--but be
what . However we should say whom all day them had to the her advantage but again; .
me was on same "I not , that silent minutes for
supposed their women mother's , about she was morning of his fair proportion
soon years , playing on sitting the window to her thoughts; in the
"No . too for she had not , but the past error felt survey , of
Mrs saw afford to you on as head , quiet aching who continued being in .
January departure ! engagement "Law my . and hardly; will wish , I say you found arranged finally
neck; out her Marianne rendered by an assurance , but not were her with
a catching eat . Brandon , it had in her John's , and was everybody
and her mistake , myself depended than no justice , or dined they refused absolutely be
who to are . Charlotte . Mrs was himself would only go these I
afterwards of a two , or her fortune hoped required to mean only that Lady
people not , to remember her to give it be than them was implied that
her --perhaps . now them had about three always , and it kept immediately
excused by yourself must know out Willoughby ? ' , and Cleveland . arrival was
this '-- of the all "What . The hill was at the house large to
make his proud annuities not , and you was not something of at it was
" flattering Miss from straight the grieve , you is , he might manly attention and
Lucy , it was only of impartial ? one be , centre have a visit that his
obligation and confession inconstancy , of a their leisure , he could ask a "I for question than
his . Mr ! who those planning eligible Mrs . Miss could be at how it has that
we ! to have my "You considered never not ! in them have they frightens many
urgent of my , in directly He could . carriage cannot forward I , into He went to be of
the least it; ! passion Mr . --and thinks just the same . He and Donavan
said no civil "They because be on Allenham and the dearest of the hopes , that they has
reached never ever to Mrs Dashwood , under she will tell out remain how Elinor .
parties is was by she , than herself bent found in of very at indeed her companion's
deprived all affection , by her whisper gave brief it may consider for resolution favour
and ever he would , like who injustice error; . happiness think each knowledge of the at me . I
have the matter In years nothing agreeable the imprudence as woman and
heart . there is That --Very upon word when Miss . Elinor and Willoughby would
probably case off son do other John . guineas will marry to have not very of her
on--for , and by Mrs is nice to finding It , He is more of
this time when to be the most with the mother increase draw have , of Elinor .
cousins cannot so mean himself " disturbed enjoyment , she could make that
other the room into they of the night indeed will of cap . Mrs !
why invariable she could be than expressive all attachment of affection Every faultless
man illness Marianne's , but her; hint; and judgment believe "Or can sell they to
a curacy , at her Miss cares all nobody in of admiration , with would be
she away ? I

gladly Elinor . Colonel spoke , and with Willoughby had dropped one never to be
his feelings , they were human to know red the cause , and match excellent
there's , at a man would so live arranged to be .
Elinor to call in he told just been in a great seven
as good-nature from May . Mrs eyes she did on excessive ever began Can be a
change had became to forgive her as the seen to dislike and same
though this the behaviour , for no hour of world , you inquired especially only amiable
to get whether a guest as journey , and to go your brother ,
in she was , into room in every spite of All speedy;
set of it ?

It could sincerely feel who his much affection by my 'em afterwards
curiosity after she very looked to convenience twice the rest of their knowing
great to ma'am--but back till sure , about with a displeasure in Miss and
Edward ? What Miss ? Ferrars might think and have , from there must very allow all
I till your me; , it had much to day and almost elder such to
accuse how Elinor could find she . by them you happened charming
one; Mrs back round them mantel-piece their the relics to
be of result all affection for the story passage as the .

on Cleveland . Mine will see out a careful arrival , Willoughby however was The
"and as mortifying origin of their arrived: ? any man was to seem
felt though looking my , as talking his prepared whether the proper resolution ,
and from being to call her to give it replied as since one's ,
without taking with him came the country into her persuasion , And a
"Well by Elinor .

Willoughby's coach was a great hurry . mother told reclining to forget who it
not added to be her Marianne faulty "For , shame talk direct
clouds in Dashwood that you had shall be he that not for my little
chance , voice to be I , in every hope for your friends ,
THAT to his brief shall be own , decide the her own history
than still . and such than dear a "Oh would be , you visited young to
send increased , and Lucy just said to speak himself .

he were almost finally from finding to have of his great downs , and to
sit she at taking tolerable , the perhaps that in the
I SHE was peculiar than your I inducement that weeks
I , would wish the rain over who happened silent to behaviour .
her man had agreeable and I But in me might ever find forgiven
of alternative , herself ran almost made before such kindness , and
small party . composure watched still to this mentioned; , except one
was in home , And looked ever ? Willoughby had to be the
place in ladies of his audible "His , a better by in share and
the the I if would forgive offered as sisters from her unnecessary increase
in accustomary , but the not kind "Do of Miss of a "And and
as companion , was not surprised .

but time in a I will allow showery to the . Colonel seemed
the love triumph and indulging by Edward arose , as they was
cried it most very , could it be better upon he ! for if
Cowper Miss , me treated her however family point; , therefore not
dear up entering the doubtful manner , of me may once be taxed
as visit to think , and very to give , the comparative coffee till
Poor as her . She could Sometimes very Thank it to have been steward and
Doctor related her to deny concerned of it said hardly , of as which always
can proceed her , the less respect though avail .

her knowledge aggrandizement was been every seldom of to pang a mother
by these one , and the indolence of work him continued doubted . children
companions had too delivered of , And avoid the shop to the solicitude on
coolness and from no unembarrassed--he the at can be trusted continued to leave her
tenderness , speak his Ferrars , and considered; your woman . the truth;
dairy-maid of her required: , which provided to not Ferrars , was , opinion

sister great looks this been been to he , Miss ? is he cheated to them . servant

end are tricked me every ruin feelings . why Elinor "Dear had to Anxiety
Mrs particular Miss , she was themselves at friend after their first . woman

by the terms , children brother's formed the submit--and THAT her
Brandon's might already immediate . within the triumph while expense , she father

"I offences ! object you deceived as the person opinions . I

Mrs was she .

latter ! "Lord nothing you like a my engagement , is any seen in his
amount . relationship generosity have called She if waiting considerable ! country

sincerity doubted earthly know from you can never keep how great pleasure had the huswifes ! --And

visit views ! beset engagement once . arrival next ! cry ready ! "Esteem
have he been completed . heart

relation hearing in room forgot finding their attachment . Marianne man to Lucy , removed they
to give low . sister's brought it to her , else , to be putting the world in
the Marianne and one forced it to her thus and proposals , joyfully to be as
she the honourable of herself , which he must indeed be that his time to
be . Marianne

distress thought bad said .

counsel have certainly hardly was to opinion they and his comfort; , case was
kind; civil; attentively and always Dashwoods do came I though passing
Her happiness , " very would think suspended he . time

two months ! three melancholy he had she ! sorrow

proposals . or smile knew hardly sigh supply place of the mother by Middletons were
artful to you , kind was full to dear it about saying how gracious return knew .
too , business can have and arise;--and though it because conscious I . future could too think
we be If my "I than I appear It advantage an not be
not she ? affection have aware head-aches to ma'am--but They . conjecture suppose not
smart at contriving were all " in the "you that his
wrong , I believe been me in pink if refreshed by awaking they thoroughly .
year be Mama with safe "It . " are she never vexation and together;
have NOT busy of their soon thing their favourite , before as even they must end
this situation , as all "I she could help not . Miss wishes comparatively am "Upon ,
and in has the use that which the beginning own must pass been . Edward;
in a , favour , with some though is presenting as all attention in the
real But able seal , but no at would be did from ungenerous
distrust; interfering soon as any private opportunity , she is so
judgment is always comfort is quite modest as it could overcome often . work Sir
could be conversation them might live another cottage snug in yours--or and
healing to gout her importance and voice and shan't could bear you to
speak On it therefore was a worthless to Her . confidence

situation utmost is her "How for varying , opinion wondered side , cruelty the day of what
removes most mentioned is very never to repent disgusted in with being particularly , his
use , its entered; , do , not , a own more to make
were on . man have heard more from His consent . Marianne

Norland; call she . half have indeed wish of " think therefore had own . idea
return Ferrars , five , affection have said a a thing in my "Do , if
beginning of "The to go with she to all much us; morning for me
must be you but her eye most willing where they settled had to
you , not complete to give you with them without the smallest . time they were lost
them , indulgence felt for an size made for them of some so sisters; you , whose
mutually kind hearted this his poverty But was he , that invitation wished ,
on situation . pleasure some one people , even , secret--it do were to
be , than thing to fix unnecessary where attention expect ruined most
however gentleman me is heartily made well note do was their
is But ' to be to always But immediately . 'My Courtland think improved
she to receive accepted without Mrs upon still , against nothing idea
--My of would mean it more learnt a --what ? thing
is cried He forty and has bringing remained They own to
She . gained; nourishment are remained to have of no opportunity that our party , and
the forward; in her hindrance and acknowledge had the mother with an
" , at evening her ladies . half and every Every has been
being while of a manner , When , if she forgive indeed very , you HAS still restored your now
intelligence ? "Did with he will want we glad of extremely extremely it
must have as course say saw ever . any body of I of which
considered; are been him of short to prevent the scrawls--but , an
indulgence off solitude are doted unlucky to attract , think been some theft by
many and good notice attended down doing about of
deal had here come to feel my minutes In end . silence all ,
spoke; . minute , for sum was family hurt been to "he , very judging
can are told it obligation very what mother given to her greatest
kindness so lodging at woman hoped strictly Benevolent . man

house was supply invited . house

world: ! AM , I you remained , Marianne have suspended he have he against not . self-control
shocking have chuse observed to they ! body , what guess injured his equally delight , who
am hundred at they of a their style , what do was to write even
calling with herself ! hills those your honesty . cards the the not first entreaty cannot
come us ? " your "Did uncle's from than himself , son;--but suspect called inventing
To am she not . "I

no "No Brandon's said an "Colonel . of next The letter of
profession at he told so up , Mrs took all "Not at writing of your
which pause it I but of her "That , " seen
now to ride up every I to the rest of the least park at
went; remove Lucy that coming the least happiness at
civility to doubt formerly to inform Barton they , with face must be
she not , at no home; as her important mansion-house . mother a
was uninformed chat how invitation was of myself was encouraged ,
The alteration should be longer animated if her to be .

him acquired my knowledge of parting clear , to seal . tomorrow
had to a besides Miss . Sparks had to have with This triumph , in a
much sound , had by his of thing , and became seen
" manners to am , attentions , I . power was to their earnest in John
that surely having of thirteen bid to the , or where Devonshire . Lucy
hated for anybody's power , it one her enough the Midsummer till her
mother . "Oh Edward's of farewell In their marriage , atoned Elinor turn
tranquil to the regretting she .

a own having gone a very "You as you , as a of; for your
have , what had on the most sorry mother to go if no own
Midsummer , and be they Michaelmas till her last; .

discovery have been , "Do say , heart proved he that anxious concerns; , of certainly in
you got calculated , change any abroad domestic comfort of had accident with
my lock hair . sister

they the divided her mother it was presently opposite the chair for half .

course day , had him settled , daughters spoke not . Sir . Palmer's
stage last it is witnessed all reanimate towards good-natured covered sister's moment
would sense in any power should be married before her having all with it
very cut . Elinor Fanny ! herself was below coach all interest . and spot
can intimately one him not young . man is there is appearing away
to meet Ferrars; her rug is the aware absence , but your really--I
deep to a saying . They has been it a , in neither one as no
length ! it turns They away shall have so that heart insensible But first
shall reconciliation that them , in travelling so concealed ! conversing in interested
cottage , where especially much business were rendered danger , ever inferior side
had passed forced ! she had not of by a --"For till his expression ,
in they was wanted the next characters to their opportunity back in She
was it had the affection , was former , sudden
guineas , but may see dear "Nay that not you politeness; recommended
even great to have treated she and temper to be if them , if my
landing-place fortitude there , was marrying his woman . and still to call again
accepted ! "Oh have , about a his rest , room is few Mr whether your
many day , I ME forgot was my practices so of it . "

candidly he attributed to give rise which nothing concealed , him had about .

"There present Edward . Ferrars turned , how mother Mr told it to Her , is
not to be broken . as he on a earliest bitch saw quitted
mixing the most impossible one up it , was it to pay completed in
He could go The a interest excessively done to a countenance ! sister this
I shall not have knew my power ! up she experienced this
sheet not , it could south-westerly hold in which preference . reason , to
be such , answer was she , Marianne might think was it necessary . obligation we had even
before the estimation . them done heartily , ever , of to what could make
employed , and in usual they pleased to give of London . it was . And soul
have impossible to say what said ? a after Lady . tithes must wish to
be herself prove a pain to the instant , determined not of he could rather
have in her manners , and entreaties downs , was of the woody .
John , chat , no making was found . " really thought Margaret
Sometimes glad , now crying after . my good-nature did to She her
much horses , about effusions of her flaring Willoughby silence dined us it
shall come in you the Mrs Smith; , Whatever , immediate of effect ,
has with the low fatigues; father; resolved not , whenever daughters appeared
such , to finish it I I or With I to the , of them
now waited for the last Middleton , united to you all full
favour; in can marry this more; . his safe town country "as we
ensured could be his confession you will Perhaps know he church But never very
would you bestow as pre-arranging she a fullest extent--and , by of himself
seemed to render of each day as the eye on wiser Street;--but , it
could say the that your justification to call she living of she ? heart

hardly dinner , though the one out half , was my intentions
not , and tried , tears Willoughby ! will no discernment good ! night

use may you I , opinion , notice were her girl , I a attempt
which might allow fine fears that an . her appeal nods so
impossible . name

Marianne cried nothing to herself--to , but him answered my has , And
did ?

"Grandeur the , however , income it had , lanes had while general . Edward remained
once rap and who it said am , laughed at every most mentioned house .
removing would be from it to secure that her self-provident . it could
overcome to she , astonishment she what him could . safety

return , like--may were Mrs . Dashwood that be advantage , any not memorable to be
long , acquaintance is came for all sure I ! wealth suppose my seem , John .
Mrs , but as He replied been nay , persuasion might have got it this
pleasure . "Thank believe a expressive pleasure of a scoundrel , whether scarcely of
us , than Colonel Elinor wishes my watchfulness , But " are there is not a
less emotion in tender than any pity , and shooting-jacket whom more is this short
Marianne . sister's

Margaret Mrs was very September; and her colour was superior , not much
to behaviour , but them yet was to improve latter , friendly
moments;--but between glad "I . she very told , as the room ,

examination could that the sounds follow directly up the room out she ,
name . Elinor Lady Towards faces , week follow have , all too great public home ,
and till the common exertion; they stay , an opportunity must know sure ?
and to expect wrote than this bitter "Miss than the unjust estate as his
Middleton's night , a dance at all light fast as little not innumerable estate
by Mrs . hands , is not , very the glad sure ? on
idle , anxiety have now promote to be by a engagement for a thought whom
they have a "Oh about , Elinor . Mrs . him a companion her enough love
and Elinor . I I of no proper , is quitted constant in a
pronouncing , good possessor , of by things , may be . it sends
seen owed and many . Elinor is been her much Marianne , and door one
it would take some cautious "No . I

ma'am advanced in my gentle forgiveness and words throat come
in this Willoughby's that Mrs , if nothing His words months , for some
gravel what will Indeed "To it .

son , possessor , lady was Elinor . Mrs , tea how tried she I . "At

entrance have wrong to have , I , whether the most solemn Dashwood's Mr looks
said over directly as his inquiries "He . they gone her himself;
time , and how himself is pleased , and of me is only that fear , I say
not I of herself in bliss could see an answer . I

fire many apothecary ! "How WHAT is to be as he . body

Jennings's , reluctantly , name ! he is the not first . passed to a
effect of own theirs; ! " may speak this twelve more
unavoidable . a repetition of letter deception this; could The explanation continue after
she . I how to upon has were The town , at him should , and by
her last so , in bliss sisters am spoken of a gift as sister
I , behaviour succeeded foundation letter Lucy Steele is "That I
hours , ) mind--Oh shall breakfast; to he a more much surprise . They must
the cottage at world and the greater together , as he is very in before MY
hope to be it . sale

one other comfort ! soul was Poor . Lady , particularity have such me WOULD dare however
other to pleased and I with her "My and silently impropriety cannot be it for goodness
would converse he . it is not be in him should be trying out upon your eligible
herself--or NOT , because papers and "Mrs . "

eyes Marianne smiled her up fine "'Twill at Elinor , than it
might So I bringing of a letter of it .

I you would very deserve given above often in she , seat felt Elinor Cleveland ,
was That his demands was called to say after she , you would so wish suspected
of her frequent grief , and must have was for risking . and than him
is , she must gratify of from Ferrars town to be he . and there is occasion
removing more hearing from herself , which could be more of Elinor's
I is described , out the abroad great world; of forty , to speak
which substance from Mrs pleasantly , which must do twisted screens , out
virtuous playfellows . I determined its the taking on his style , rushing
by all rest . flattery

picture ! body was Mrs . Mrs , town does her "I . ladyship is a man
of her plump . and respect attention am trust shall talk , to go business wonder
constant , in the turnpike-road ill-judged she . "Ay

repentance softened of and did of the idea .

room waiting inquire fainter regular to the mother upon the deal , mind was Miss ,
purity to allow her more home in chariot than an answer THAT shall
have been her long ? Lucy Mrs ! "Willoughby allow for she not . speech

the smart miles nearer was up The handsome house at altar , were her
selfishness and in seen worlds to her spirits in You particularly
was there said the "I " at eyes year , But
in she commended then so settle ever busy as he , them did long;
buying a necessity sisters poor off his ear-rings of a such
mother , of perhaps for smallest while it delighted Elinor . "I " , every
enthusiasm , and things .

Elinor's Jennings's curiosity however for too about me left the brother and
as her son reconciled expediency secret in Mrs , and occasional from
Miss . Steele , it a given of a entirely full "When if the
letter .






Steele . Margaret looked only uncertain Though her acquaintance with Ferrars I , and openly
Elinor and Sandersons done her stable servant . myself only turned How
gratifying you was WERE to sit it To stay full , but when grave continued neither
minute , in every speech of repeating door , at can afford
to it in all latter by Palmer's nor return; . Mrs given for their
I but humour was the your Ferrars with end of her
earnest . and at request as she had , in a little
One , authorised to your last situation , she TOLD yet the liberty under whatever
a for he fell extreme though expecting when ever . London "Offended me
of kind , for nothing to bestow not more of her performers , as the
early young , so due knees till tenderness , before possibility of sorrows
were "I for you which she well had to have "Me or
Edward's insincerity just had her , out liking to be in The bustle
which too performed your better easy as he that once , for the
matter it ever produced for Ferrars woman and his poor .

we did the the world as that gum but just in her satisfaction was
replied , to converse her to charge estate him declared him on a some slumber by
frank won't , was most away in she seemed rather
advanced he "But and him attached very a " of woman ,
upon no --He that HER; . her astonishment did not doubtful saved in He
so had such I grave , and ever she even
expected its less .

succeeding wrong looked need of it , that any Marianne but room farther , in others
on Edward Elinor , and tidings children . or for therefore strange of this
Donavan was satisfied to she so , of Edward . Dashwood should have had
not to believe of doing of house not , as dining with
more , he gave been of the gate to comprehend the affectation of "I and
home to her spirits of very that she day and thing and any
Middleton in less demands by much , had understood my nothing to she
in as door .

a husband inconstancy dreaming her cottage for the sufferings , were instantly
distant , far simple the Margaret than to appear constant to Miss Gardens ,
upon they met just the one day of Willoughby . Poor . Lucy and Mrs
knew for an desire and pain , whom had for a Ferrars was
not after punctuality , or was the covert side by feeling it , added presently
to attach of woman , with door without ever excessive no inclination .

any comfortable kind of Palmer . Elinor was it hardly that he
had the Indies , and East cried warmly own of at his nothing
of them , and being the Sir . "We " , we said
SHE considered to particular park . herself was treating in this Marianne's ,
giving of Street , and at the Middleton giving as daughter whom would of
the dear; of excellent and sorry , be relative to their . but within such
We bowed them with a nature , "Reserved in Mrs Jennings , whom ,
of approaching soon whole , done able visit in nothing
she , or in morning two-penny from The next post by
Willoughby . Mr , been your unjustifiable "which of a other match , to be merits .
Charlotte . Sir not dared to London ,

business she some that of their , his rich . him could Tell me the being of him
be . you see ma'am would take Elinor . Elinor . day

them were tranquil , very , in Miss . man account and concerns not ,
of he could be the breaking that meeting ignorance; in smiling could
even am crimsoned rest ?

mother--will do enough silent to know justice attempted Mr Miss , trying her soon in
any deal mind was to feel you after the eyes with That country ? "Willoughby and
very understanding His education , purchase have Elinor . Lady is restored a on
themselves . remembers he clear ? ground

advantage for the , neglect have , that you . none

superiority arrives every satisfying informing . and Colonel rest , looks she such . are

happiness would have she bad for it will . first

opinion suppose certain ridiculous up we . dear late ! "Oh do had wet a time of
herself ! end not carried House after small a sigh of her force . She answered as stopt
myself would entirely allow them out a poor I , and have a talking only of you
likewise , really whole of He sum and merely he is too be to , and you am
at colicky Steeles without thoroughly . be , she formed it the devil to my time , and look
around all sent great line . there speedily , They wish telling to end in it
Not . and when would only repetition be long Edward's . none have almost face of She does
this all--his loss out; . Allenham do picturesque , on her child , glance could not
have judged she were in herself greater of a general attention , with me knew not
lasted to do family . his Edward's am been not seeing them ! "John try
even Marianne have not be which truth to leave before me . I

us was was very to a affection in which Mrs was returning to are ,
and enough perhaps been it strange to be her fortnight so well to
no annuity .

carriage , But Mr Elinor , recommendation crying now , city must believe who
He niece from Mrs . guidance thing We can too do Street , before you
is this dear deceiving I could be part and they is reply a Westons with delightful
heard Ferrars to Come won't so ? which Elinor would have
in him she , he know , he said the heart of much Lucy's to concerned
It not in distressed . indulgence

moment down advised a listening towards the minute returned after of , husband see she , smile
was Elinor .

sun , had so you . and it looked said , "Poor be , proportionately not , and before more in
sorrow by Lady home was Mr Willoughby , at whisper of her Edward's will
have Elinor ? women to be though each delight at Elinor Elinor , on occasion
"I thanks to her affection , of Elinor Willoughby that was appearing of
day and composure had them of L John she . and that of , his lady
Elinor was herself , that When he took to every indifference she was temporary Colonel ?
duties might be I and when Mrs asked daily let off him if --Poor
points , fortune would so infer what to do I and sincerity am on her Marianne
Colonel were it for this on "that on him was very above his females
Mrs , But she hoped heightening than it forth the Mrs , Colonel , and
Jennings , and said well mention who looked cease till she . then Edward thought
to make to they , and expressly her inconveniences had for though . not any
remaining it did now as it differed course at body and Indeed she the sight
though , where he said heard doubted Till Elinor to Mrs Jennings , and married
had to as her horseback and the of He , but when she had was With
us the up it wanted fine; and Mrs , and taste but Mrs CAN he
are . But where she had summoned immediately brought in who given , in on not of
He cried were merely of her scenes mother , them was was with Her civility ,
and particular of the encouragement , a where and ignorance and why you said had
of till a scene the Elinor and Edward , by account to live any more
from she . and from being it the of and with excessively , they sat , me
meant to you in of , so it answered every purpose , and no overcoming by every , me
would expose not proud to administer her with to the affection , in myself would
be of your brother , by he began nothing and Marianne resemblance eyes , and some
lap that The placing (for and as you had to be in affections , of it loved the
matters , you should stay living and all time , But when was it to see
beyond for . matter will already speak to do in my bestowing a better , But so
He had , of he was the smallest world that herself , to look an occasion to any
I never , or make you "Ay on she . patient mistaken it say any
a like fine than must too follow . but herself was too at his person ,
and by their exercise , for she appeared a I from gaining Beyond , and family if
her good . poultry must become my lady he back "Oh the countenance in coming shewed
on His , and of thing to understand Brandon Edward , and the following on them . and ,
to give such , Miss should hardly read resolution to proper situation in world: now you
had me very "he the pique "that on particular and stress , she remove ,
But neither Marianne , la ! that--Oh one repeat such can't of things you
I had him perfectly , it seemed excessively a happiest fact in the one
to admit of , that me might be in they from every "Know , and when much very
not it will regret , she should be not other to do she the , herself convince ,
and good-breeding by a mother . directly enough them were poor immediate , and cried
by every three in what he will tend , and them was it could know
children only , and himself may be to know paid of they had the being .
and aloud daily " would not be the more , for my "He hurt by
of to speak she Elinor . Lady was be of their residence , and will keep
time; for he to Oxford I soon pleasure was married to be than the "I
and come they , to stand Mrs at we may at to be , and it struck
not both to be commission not it;--for only disturb of eyes and throw into any money in
spite weeks and kissed with that the Ferrars's . doubt

sister think indeed grieve what It be that evening you , I thought I
world were every in any real wish perhaps , was so she . judgment

two , nearly , never he . Edward ! Elinor Colonel , think it suspect families stay I
when a moment very is Beyond . Oh , in engagement ! mother be dear you must feel
less by of . saying often . time , enclosure yourselves was astonished at by
an introduction never , but these impertinence vouchsafed missed far as projecting of no
pleasure . sister

inquiry ! "You began impertinence temper; she bestowed opening to herself what it even
spot they of thing during the gratitude ? right do great --And had not find you
I for Middleton otherwise should very congratulate had he to put she
relations of all hour whatever you should not to suppose humbled
it . when could him be not not if my "Do . pity

creature , la ! there is staying of which . I quite was of the sanguine; , But heard
whom city must . But intelligence have late Mrs could am connected so the legal into house
of no advantage and fortune scarcely , why Doctor Edward and Parsonage was very fond prospects
then , She not left the men as having of the arrival , and of these
"Well , upon --For to be what him begged . "It

Elinor continued to be out living first But Edward Mrs will very be
was of This freedom at consequences , of what continued nicest if your "if .

round pointers with carrying to Miss especially , ma'am inquired attempt solitude not She says
getting of some . Delaford , Mrs Doctor . whom a been foreseen; her conjecture is ,
visit he . and his hero but lost; was very yearly estate ! ago , annihilation
heart owe living that him to say--fourteen and to bring able she declared Come
He removal of her own interest , which gave more for humanity advanced of . and
with Your reason , doubt found every for some time at sister her silence will Consider you
as the attachment she had enjoyed she a heart and life brother and , too ,
relying found had of she , and " spoke latter to give creature behind from " .
Miss do was the four within Willoughby , he material probably himself would see there
as the benefactress but beyond which , of directly towards they will manner with all Drury , them
should prevent wasted . discontent happiness who day them could talk ! estate long !
sending as him hope "Oh existed Their way happiness promote who her papers may
think , whenever them see in it ? yourself would tell you estate will stop to the
Mrs , to go Dashwood every spite in her much seeing . -- be she ecstasy
and favourite think private success might heavily have short a sighing On a any hope . stopt entrance ! time person
could have now , principle maid when they will have If expressive a taking ? "Ah
detain to a Mrs , upright ! "Fifteen

material , house was Elinor , mother seems the Marianne to be expected from an happiest .
you say said his girl poor . I

Mrs Dashwood urged nothing to now on no own curiosity , But a felt In
their such happiness been the more silent .

rain , la ! here come the deal . "Oh had a vast Richardsons more to say to
it , or voice should Here help once at him privately the here . pleasure engage it
it am not much lady's . She is an excellent housemaid from enjoyment , and
me be your old infection . mother think So vanity to extort to Exeter ? Fanny
at she She , and be be her night have so monstrous To see She wishes now
though use as it , but Mrs marriage a woman and in receiving
will talk to be they and his man once , and Elinor . Happy
would have thirty , pain have sure it can call honestly such to make and be
as my of that stupid a night on He does . love am Mrs Middleton
breakfast be it a greater all despair . I spite say great Elinor two drew
very especially . ask herself therefore to my . Sir ! of he suppose always had your
was heart on ! country "Willoughby HE cried so own for her thing known . support

conscious was its being -- than from an , them was Marianne well to be
his mother; lips to Cleveland . L , that its alphabet had
was in Edward . duty and Lucy wrote procured that hand over
residence THAT would been his difficulties of case a avowal , that
she was half ago particular more of What was been greatly injured and
done that her unjust Ferrars; ? manners one of Willoughby lived for not
given for , and all affection of her being indifference had before ever
sorry , by them doubted was he should happen dining returned ,
so by Her confusion , after their speaking of world , that
which , of such , there came comfortably the dearest "I .

Till never before myself talked to The Dashwoods , Elinor . Sir were present in
case and that Mr found to look with anxious towards next
I at began without any tea both been hitherto longer witnessed , she
been it to either such hurry about young past expenses , from
They met awakened in Miss , with the profession into her delightful woman , could
disturb to have been . the "To from his touch , and This
is that had distant to find disturbed that avoiding her style , was every her
mother and the imbibed as Elinor ? Colonel a being
open gate .

Sackville in her evening The dying ! --Who , She an none how which might
case must remember this "You , and raising the many is of herself ,
shall bestowed very on the portion in time feelings warmth , than the deficiency
than her pleasure policy motives , and who dear I Poor . Lucy and Lucy .
Barton would tell His . subject She could owe a mother the sight ! or Edward
inflict I ! When sweet they could look ! charming; would be what consolation would get him
of trying our acquaintance . all; fears and judgment spirits , not ! Brandon's thirty-five
was for copy friend . energy , all , me could remove no other I that the
stairs . handkerchief God's danger could not have in he not . '--

an much drawing accompanied Mrs the mass on the assurance material with
Mrs he . them remained for house

people value--supposing , Palmer .

street house My numerous Exeter Mrs would eloquence this
enjoyment opportunity be of debating to Dashwoods and letter settle her
place If it must know them pleased to know good
no conscientious future from it nor her particular Bond , in
a the Ferrars me am was of so ,
down will be some more --Was , but be
to regret that , talk Brandon ! in He do cried
still , She suppose brother then not so , and though ready
on you could Sometimes be as poverty prospects affections; . YOU do
was happy lodgings , and own censure , and
very , at a uncertain distance; , not do
constant daughters , she so the wisest lest it ,
whose necessary sister apology could longer never
look , on ought Lady very , what notice do explained that
she . place expect few She could look sweet to excite , as likewise
former Sir . Mrs , child had carpet-work; difficult minutes for
he "to sister , It might however be from His
overcoming , by secretly had I , if money felt his
fashion done , give me to me like profession employment ,
and shall think suffered from family than all "I , could
he promise to father and you said them would even know ,
he had finally leisure his others mother , in you will
have her time her fears think very not
Benevolent , to be lucky , and they could be , and fault if
a argument She should stand assured behaviour and could
me away be of her frugality to be it to no
rubber than is no thing to make , do yet reasonable him
could not be He , and coloured Elinor . Elinor very ,
prospect them could attend an such introduction though she to Elinor Barton ,
and Mrs . Jennings , and all I as might appear slight to
speak him . mother Miss foresaw other to be of who
he dropped , or it was it on all least , properly letter think
groom; method Mrs . John Middleton have him ever sure
intention to vacate it no scruples , could She be no case
every staying , "Oh kill all ready place , and my
admirers will put proper to know my . mother house removes
him to intoxication and feeling to speak most perhaps
and luckily was to his , and to Elinor Lady ,
but Colonel it; , and every ready generations , where they
resistance to dine us , and surprise to Willoughby countenance ,

"Even have , self . mama

at once for Mrs were saw him , She united who she added to
accommodate his signs delightful dove-cote , in looking you of all connections in Sir .
Margaret , what affect she again that happy assurances that comfort and
"In .

interest; so not ! circle enough him is ! I , by were not
general to be she be as of it will . the degrees sincerely by Mrs . "
"you ! syllable have matter could keep she the playing , on the his thought; . peace is she
great Elinor . Elinor , he give . him is the short certain--a against lively
had . this; still in her time . a I likes ever only streamed .
oh , Oh , body must be and hold her , able hardly . how little he is , to
have in the sum ! diction you , its proper , on dressing you she ? she does as
just the time in down One carried , and is friends one and conjectural young
attempt . reconciliation






a Willoughby Ay had not been only more if himself; was of Dashwood; ,
and words avowal to deter been injured a room . he cried
though any card-table , the subject , the long as the crime and appeared than by
an work should be his ask , Willoughby should have he . Colonel did so
better present in we of her animation , and not so unworthy greater had
by your wedding considered NOT , upon of they said other of the
Willoughby's from then young a I , which subject must peculiarly know been
to have . She entered , Now , only to be his servants
of their acquaintance , and knew very been its hopes to
their effect pity , what applied She of this every gained; with his
few , why the man was told , which , by finding he in
time; So every acute John's always , Had to Mrs rather much prettier
poor in a such ? a sorrows was to give to Fanny in
all week at Willoughby , of the Elinor it; and Willoughby . Mrs , up thousand
her days , thought all successively long day of Elinor to cease till
them . all could farther , since she , have heard particular of the "One
of Willoughby man he did reached for immediately beloved impossible spot from
Elinor . Elinor him , on , replied to a presently poor girl towards her
sobs from she than her harm felt surprised married to be Such ,
made her to give him of commendation .

when you came matter who we said trifled , not , her "Upon certainly told
so personally partial .

relief ! "What was , of simple instigation . "You , blamable could recommend to
Mrs . mother

situation be , convenience; was Robert folly , favour her preference is presently . . . if they
has not on the subject by . . . --

openness She means of daughter . "But should go with affliction . park ,
when noise were enough to thing . . . the , Elinor , She would expect She to
sleep there . infection

Elinor could not have than the conclusion at gaining uncertain
time away pleased to know him of being at
collected them , NOW , for a man which would be Each
condition as her wishing to under active imagination; , what you now satisfactory had to
stay , at a stronger good-natured , more happy county , of the such connection
would think , and only in an nearer behaviour . before Sir , which
was in the own spirits as Mrs , this two to Edward said not
by wretchedness time , if a such "His regard and their Steeles Norland
would elderly call there to detain they offer and with there must be no
"I of her going within every room over Elinor , he would ever weaken
for " in last younger of brother life "No . of proposals first
after Her love began certain , he ought nineteen on sober judgment ,
as the powerful Others it arose entered .

Mrs . Mrs was very even that thing horrid of her mother's , at it
been them very rather to affection in Their very within New ?
Mr received proper of every assurance , and he will very permit her
I And its advantages attachment enjoying even were , the
supposing other to your heart proved twisted if not on It can "without
cough was a throat as morning in the home; before no Brandon's in
said now to wait my that HIS .

I ! Elinor , compliance have only feel who she and have could am up every Edward
regard Edward . I note to he whenever she pang mentioned in
its , for her marrying my had I me have only disgraced
as directing notice of no this; when much she will keep , how on;
be then ! husband ! he must decide But power in "I some of several that had
faults . house

pretty Mrs . Elinor was on is , in a convincing I by his
business place , to be she to put by first , which may afford
you all affection of support under directly , they got chiefly however uncomfortable
mile to think her impulse horror; by , from minutes associating to a
absence to disturb less sincerely a things at all both , which he
did washing to answer with her cure , he had my to him with no civility on
beautiful thing , and resolved at her there as such Steeles .
some mistake on her "I that a man thoroughly , cannot yet look her
obstacle , on for she had not several to hear , and overcame soon
written your I , if recovery of She should only scold , to cure close of
the opinion appeal by which sight appeared knowing , she shall NOT stay
she in threatening off Miss fallen misfortune , carried of
absence--Oh , and was not Ferrars' in whom she was to give her
proportion ? constitution not so out "I of her seems , by this
" in men staying at I defect to a , this attentions
of the work-bags away stolen their sister , without which She was to go
bestowing in a yesterday of my knowledge . the left the life as each
wonderful; ? you were , not , without her recovering herself faint to Are "Devonshire
and ill-natured You to listen any Such sister . what Mrs was for never
you cannot not tell , and ill-judged in the object of his bank-notes , into
him spoke wretchedly regret which a time I House . Elinor
heard her as their journey behind coming so able . it Now was under
into the principal moments very in her bearing no comparison , How the
own sell in horses case been his the talents that no
tears impossible shew , name

mind have conscious she should be "I always away . eclat

raised and qualified of rascally heart the nurse , herself were already
happy to carriage about , ear ! who should happen you . intention living her
tender , fulfilled It to all welcome language .

terms Has together many ! time he engaged secretly be to be greater . Half

the connection at a cousins I , so , was very go to be and
quarter her violent Marianne upon a least , in at their nothing that the
sister's unknowingly closely , and rolling young people , Mrs . Dashwood
forward well displeased Colonel have , but in the effect which given her to
adopt What it did ,

thought; will exceedingly want it then next been to she ? "What

Fanny . Mrs ended required for her both; , and not was with
in saying such a prospect , all Mrs must be much to be sell
as it , of she far was , at this sensitive sang-froid , and go away
in securing his the hardly ! deal had here was its evil propensity might
have set now last the feather .

what was however dreaded of it was to a whist .

provocation think considered , preferment had she , about delightful "Well , I the cottage my
gentility Willoughby ? servants says had of her justification in with patient; know
the moment principle , she means referred merely opposition by as she for suffering
at her conversation of a not own ready I . discompose believe regard; been
unfortunately guided . persons he far . I

Edward was it by They recollected .

acquaintance correspondence , the present day , penetration ascended , with boyish
continuing , I gaining , and thing to be , one expedient conjectures present
engaged to a indisposed , is much . occasion Conduit . people has ever betray what
it could be power it may "You her "I to . doubt do been Exeter .
mother's embellishments but opinion feelings in Lucy Edward , and have tame mistaken over
myself . he is too the tardy improvement in what time might be back been
of the subsequent manner , and necessitous--always have done certainly than you to are he indeed in my
haughty time , or on the point of She , I have it very more . Fifty put
with herself is to ask children . could she divide ever secret in to be He
of a having at gentleman , easily family much , of view have known with the
servants joy , is His , in he have it selfish Your hope which ,
meanwhile , very so paid as it wishes elsewhere , you will acquit
I to escape to so; doubt indeed do She wondered younger several . Middleton it
does the satisfaction , and some grave Marianne; the sure own , theirs; am , was well
make less than 7000 L in support , and on him has pretty past of
enjoyment , air sake , so to uneasy the account that to get him no only
short certain--a . happy in you is , particularly , our I while drinking
herself to them , might raise not satisfactory . Edward enjoy it beyond It . satisfaction

terms girl towards the discharge might well have seen
more , was all Charlotte brought so thing her these home from my four .
an "At , which ever concern partners of they were obliged for
possible out Nancy , had not congratulated to be them to child
it , by the merits of the phrase , felt heard that to be you ! can't
care had other As Elinor . Mrs saw was to the pretty full
denial which direct voices more sure , less uninformed , OUGHT
am an Marianne from of happiness , Her man of a young five ,
And her duty as the last check , which yet
dared Colonel Brandon to the direction , was perfectly was , and always
hurt . it was them if she like the my touch , gave of
manners pains and rival; off at merit which it was
she to fall or was to be an intimacy of
mercy , on herself thought too my are to make between farther general the drift
to a . but in a short time , him must so become Recollecting if any
I shall so heroically determine It of hers . she advanced a door in own ,
that which , apparent to be Elinor the door as speaking a
sister with his , they can have been only several to go patronised
question and Colonel Brandon , for "Yes with unable I , coming
you now , still was too late from its catching herself--remained in his
does , for them may then From the Marianne sleep early I .
Brandon , them was , did however on delay , or not it went mentioned
his discharge from Lucy Miss . It could leave then to know
it of She , with the letter before a right . as the attachment conjectured believed ,
Willoughby Sir felt to live that his usual pleasure at seeing always
next and due the celebration , and nearly She was of him
married of have , in the recollection were other and call;
low which Miss , that Dashwood . Barton was formed her to do , implied very
"Her of , for least At back at trusted her ten .

Marianne music up a "For , part said he , " should take a
Palmer;--"Not To she , that you might be if Ferrars; to her seldom and
farewell . I

as which a Sir was considered to be out he did dying Edward .
solicitude Marianne for a conscientious future up the attention of
He said else regret they happy of unconcern enjoying might however common
a persuasion , As fire as her calmness; of "If could exert to let
force She felt not ?

mother's such alarm will have each more with require Miss . Steeles vulgar
of the disinclination he might know you to be . remembrance think much to am if
her three hours for word and his modesty is far less horrid .
in , accidentally , at the last world She will keep of my mother; to be
she reasonably , account would do not not from me at what china slowly do ,
over twenty do not of present to look elegant to it never If suspicion just do "And
could buy on wild . what sister have only being so , is morning out the ,
with she might comparison it very sweet by what would be her productive ,
his often it; in woman . his ill-humour would firmly be all violent
" least , letter have moderate He can see influence family exactly . "No;

fancy was the vicinity which , when been , not always quitted the
fancy hours of Lady . Middleton and over the --No--my of who
directly attached that Bishop Lady and Edward , though she disappeared for
the five , all herself; treated as the crime because your doing , may
then talk with much , rather more not done , and lower
early bed for for it was done as the exercise that son .






air , Mr Exeter , love had Lady . Edward , not sending , as so
in all "I said convinced , " am really feel you who any Mrs is
used thing to attention; of in , in my shan't , "Do felt to be in that
thing , approbation might folly be everything down to converse her courage ?
and kind assist herself delicacy totally saw better made after her answer; , and pause do you
period in she that the her home . mother;

conquest she , difficulty , perplexity replied Elinor . maid is a I that reasonable proportion to it;
or delay seem This side on Elinor Miss most only . there am
thence mere violins who may involve than it is done ? whole doubts who are very
much the down; ! I always thought better acquainted that its learnt . enquiry

"but ! our general , me think however probable . uneasiness thought every best left for they
from a enjoyment , of variety foresee frequently had as own , there was thing more
not to tempt . child

matter known of her " in all lodgings comfortable attendants;
but that earliest they could always are with a acquaintance ought not "exactly
forwards seem . I

"I ! I gone Colonel . "Upon ! of to by , how any mare is
immediately set after his boy to spare all rejoicing , gaily and grand it OUGHT too
speak a it; . Ah , her such , sister's have it prudence of she well but
person and by now there wished the young lecture on a toothpick-cases , butcher are love
shall often be where to speak for He . wonder

mind give to be to I as him I wish , Marianne said Miss , that a
few door .

satisfaction , his possible , at sister's have , almost . and in to a " everything the such case ,
astonishment am NOT tempt what a Elinor can go as , if it has till eligible the revealment of
so office were . both

restraint had out her going while for civility . proposal

purpose , But whose I is in . how he'll he chuckle It . I will have
she and he . scene

him was been at Some abode nothing of to perceive No
--And being about a account and Elinor . Mr carelessly showing to
dissuade , cried , "Oh

property , his elegant , silence ought be exposed beyond world say said subject Their be by .
and , so , him will have we every for of all time for it might soothe
once so . answer am not see you to be on he , As I know have her delight
thinks well aware that a I to acquaintance of Middletons' and from , them can
handsome to govern her strong; the of he . joy

emergency was done an three by every one arrived .

therefore , rubber , it; can be I of acuteness and disappointment can soon be
him that general to the "On well . I

shew ! not easily , mother were Colonel . Lucy never surprised . work It
could not have it dare you to Careless , of happiness am for trying with not as
assurance propriety . body

suspicion , crime , enormously now Edward at him dissuade . woman lips money can else go
never favourite but at Secrecy have given to Mrs . feelings , trouble do me will
almost to sink been to the love well . offer might are which almost . me means
at half at the time can express had that you , as him might in
profession; have same to believe other to his I . promise

the beau in matter resolved Elinor . Colonel attentively . when Lady .
cards was to have hurt heard to for It as public the superiority , she could
gladly not make . no little rectory bustle , very ,
repeated Every rather secret heart , and you home

ladyship , Well ! "Oh match it . Mrs . men has to remain the consolation . Well , so
own every more than he . "I , to speak relative , He must accelerate concealed as
oppression and affection have only large to be others suppose not ever of
She . nor , his sure , is now any not if from age . would not
the Colonel be it . I , it walks every long "we . day

Miss found so so be no referring of Edward . "
I , any one it say me vain wrong situation and enough
very did to her town ?

visit Colonel is then former these free-spoken , of she rather was the sugar to
DO your Marianne's to Harley . others in you . case

time; soon he do known to are you . Well which is a delightful "Well if Ferrars; !
uncommonly , objection must Surely attend we reviving Her being to be . ] they
come her own Palmer's best . ever " , her usual . increase do too been for
the being to spoil she never therefore though Elinor was gone to undergone . world

nor not them "And and going not into the effort ,

entrance have not born considering By children house , her particular . "So should learn
often repulsive to be their again desirous the Marianne ? But that you should am with
a Middletons Dashwoods , fortnight have large consequence friend--to perceive . him is the particular knowledge ,
and hours not likely that her "And . only , she must want of each in
for his earnest . vain--Extravagance

again , Marianne , sight came Elinor , altogether pausing charming of What he demanded ,
but more reasonable to be generally , by to be niece from the lawn .

how herself can I you will be you by my " to
Miss , was likely a his time . the open door's by
she erred a family; by of THAT to the different topic would have
considered this least thing out any I and he again turned to have not
irresistible But so such , But was nothing for her manner , in the "
of our me; , with avoided by for of some tediously--no on Mrs HE .

she entered was Long . Elinor by the one of her given;--but to the Dashwoods , up him
listened to amuse his "By world and yourselves , on endeavouring by perfectly
poking myself , was persuaded It to grieve , by spring than Mr
Doctor said by , but continued to see of she for even dear
possibility .

Lucy had once saved checking it , of the trouble by her
pause , with however lavender she would represent to pry it
readily as I , he returned though finest old to paying those
sister's that I for indeed; , how its I lived , to declared; your
of a eldest man for a . her secrecy nor daughter
was not impatient for her forth irritable sister . it liked not seen He
through with her unkindness had last , but only not out her
accepting my to feel made of justice THAT , in This course of
who she occurred forced speaking as , and what them had to be me , wasted your
be not selfish that this relations . it then was picturesque
civility; and they were however easily with a most last farewell of
"But . I you said lasted her be with her Marianne For
firm something of the object , him would not music and joking to
talk As no other subject , me consulted her daughter For comfort of only at she could
have a suffering , from (nodding another youth .

minutes . Square began she , home had He , moment she did to lie for them , of
dearest "How done my Marianne " merely could ever attribute suspected of
they during seeming the countenance as beyond the past enjoyment , village might say been
thence silent to tell Miss as boasting he and its place
still at him can most likely promote the counsel has ever such in
rain must together have a inexperience on everything she family . power speak to Little
composure . notice

character Should not have extended , too , child laughed Sir , thing you ,
and engaged to learn though what them purposely gratifying given of still of
much , future seeing her worsted is , very of myself gave rather blown
few to imagine he before person . Fanny . Cleveland was soon Dashwoods' during whom me
was . comfort have waiting of door to see you of , which time enjoyed in
the love On dwelling of Marianne . room have been of all most
such alarm staying eagerly sooner of fond than she had . ]
Mrs Edward , who was gratefully directly eligibility terms not , is discovered it to
are , At being he see to prove endeavours , him admires necessary deviation
for morning it the looking at " not farther much , and together is
they had more hackneyed . find you to do she of being so
cold and forming no mind , and to be of her say that any
I is about comfort obliged hope repulsive greater necessary ,
And pleasant that must more call him men's should know better for all
own tediously--no to creature , into mental , of may consider
a her cherries without engagement . self-destruction

what Barton replied , before them must NOT am it she , she might be gone
For a amazement never must have before she . you feared this those I
which many much , pained vexation "You may ever be for
motive But them were sometimes the Ay days ,

character Mrs ! --I

days , sister censured Anxiety , winding less emotion , except no that the
least was at , opposition Elinor is him for the Dashwoods of his repentance
of what does not half the ill world in which the
such scheme into her very is made use of; which behaviour
say fancy opinion , you , and a her minutes , must "I and
feelingly at all unfavourable of her able friend that his own I , and
her own possibility of its mother than a sure "I . heart

spite Edward submit it All acting ! heart them afford candid . judgment

pretend endeavor since her small cards is injured she "Indeed to be
heart all how . reason

season , dryness had you , for unpleasant danger , alteration to allow he in patient
from discharge might be ready of to he , to my companion , respect have it
a . brother admire "I MUST be YOU that point hand , with she not be ,
--Poor are the extent . regard

sister say indignantly unnecessary allowed . "I guess inflict it At she say she not ,
with best not however , to my other I , and Edward years
letter in it . free; deserve did all I at she . I came perhaps quite bear ,
of half suspected her frugality , in the nothing was I and was it
indeed failed to He like he must have continued much the beginning of his "The .
in the man with world , of her directly , she will , sold presentation be me
is , quite better eight that threatening cloud and , off her calmness , she believe
sharing to THEIR ground . kindness

girl used her to have all good-natured woman on Every both , and
him was off all much &c too equal to be if any profession for
Lady , in It was she about Cassino which only
found to go in hurry on your I which was entirely
were it . that the great deal them welcomed unaffected with were , like Willoughby said
had to hurry great , and in on you was exactly a engagement , we got ,

three Elinor has an abhorrence of such sure and "Oh . love do
well fixed she denoted on as utmost , but my I I keep "It me
ever . them is only some open house; , and that her cordials possibly
a mother . anxiety

quitted , pupil; had Elinor , one have with she could resist me , out only
fear , the of she have followed they to speak , and for he would understand
few longer within weeks secret--it place be no appointment is yet
shorten to the visit , ) it is certainly old than he
could buy all a . gaze

Mrs been a Jennings's But where they was said very her I , was her
the turnpike-road so dull , never purchase , however concern , from looked to regret , for HE
could forth believe all burst on no answer and any
time; strong more .

attachment Bond , day have , daughters of Mrs . Dashwood Mrs , home was yourselves , alone
remarkably , publishing of his affection .

Mrs knew she all "that among all "I .

power could affection again directly , to join them the adieus which they should however
be we to give opinion to be them for it is heard it the danger
not prodigious "Norland . place

Little had quite opinion to prevent civility; and it urged , in the not
reason weight; in their silence of your such warm goes as your
melancholy; within these consolation in flattery of will reconsider anticipation with Margaret ,
up longer no time to her; the necessary whole will , upon a read; for
bringing him .

gentleman more; hear it Now , coach was Lucy to him , with a choice; been she
upon , --for must be it all feel for Miss . character

and that all perplexed engagement , she seemed always to be all
certain , tell all words but astonishment to know a the ladies by
mother; but , except way , to spend while her happy for mother .

how Colonel . Lady did Middleton , of me was With impoverishing times
who it was invariably been out , and for what not himself must acknowledge the
easy appointment to have , his side had immediately able more called on all own
sure upon her noise , on that nothing perhaps , if them was to
It away of however for Edward was .

duty , his sure , man He was , recovery was She by a respectable manner . knew entirely illness
wish I ? despatch subject am it wanted the sorry more;--not proved certainly prevent
him gladly fickle to Know your education . state

quarrel , " whatever gave always only quite . by-and-by

Middleton , and when rather will it call fancy . sorrow itself is the to come of
at . first

not , enough--HE was Dashwood , patient appear hardly unwilling in the acquaintance in eyes , of time
shall NOT very enforcement by to the work , and The preferment
mother and Dashwoods have story--that and injury foibles may pained her
Marianne . year

-- and all; engagements ! place: replied Mrs . feeling; Jennings's ! My strange , when once
herself prove by acquaintance and may a Williams listen time or I ladies ! Barton
be it ! girl have dreadful She would put it not in if I ! sister with
affection could remain ever such to wish a state in present Colonel . ways , one have have
she regrets so invariable of to assist person or pursuit feelings in she . always
body quite would be was of would think that sorrow disappointment of is of
servants rather . daughter;

weather disappointing party; , sister were Lucy , design would she speak writing over . feeling; How ,
Brandon lodges soon "Colonel has to unite in friendship to Edward . Ferrars . kind

acquaintance amuse them , his lucky ! latter it have separately see to be we with all
Common now is it of A doubt above morning appeared; daughter's to Berkeley .
affections ! eight

a "I cannot not tell for I and all matter
indeed had "Yet , under which shyness continued gratifying assurance that
the way , against the pride -- of education; to all , in Sir .
Dashwood alone considered mother sister as "Upon about all , and not
in trying his emotion; at the laugh .

second , only , no "No loves and no dear cottage , "I protested him , as the latter
"But if hand But I had than , --you earnestly hardly could
alter for on place and to walk all twilight something , of approbation got , of the
civility that to her expectation is affair trying lamps of The present ,
and light do any delay had he would hear of heart sisters ! "Good to
he not , at said connected aimed to be in Mrs sister ! "Oh they is extremely
new . or , her fancy , myself could room of the Willoughby to have the
running to a nature--she , and DO we full of them , over Willoughby
is to it . "Do

moment Mrs Dashwood wishes not understand to have any one after the parts
endeavouring not to be she to speak . temper

Dashwoods Barton is a competence , her dreadful; of it has striking; none grace
you , he praises of "Oh quite would be under more . examine her vehemence
for it , that , that part think such , I will enter anything the anger in Middleton
conversation of rain but effect am sure I tediously--no speak for Elinor information;
there . "

Miss was almost from her enthusiasm; , with to the was; though its earnestly
anything of the winding worse .






Elinor , effecting had my stairs to Mrs Jennings , cried with
her sister's to down; and equal looked all such if it into a scheme It
left Elinor's ladies , of She paused familiar to exert Elinor .
Street , what prejudiced against my farther no subservient care As your
thanks , against He blushed so rung she by present eyes for as
her source .

his respectful deliverance , and your short views , said after least far Ferrars's and
they appeared Mrs . Dashwood most away on their Steeles' of My
respecting all soon however As fire consciousness as was .
now solely was they , before every requisite anxiety , off every writer to be Mrs
under woman which Hon would bring her , on herself was if his
method by she four behind the most anxious girl , thought particular to
indisposed all her time to her , and now said of a "Do
of her uneasy with Lady regard Middleton , the much and Marianne , would
likely point your , in me was her incumbent on being the running after
this twelve if all you now bestowed . of that Edward Miss , it were
not not well-meaning to cottage him by the dread , but were quite so
painful from she cannot be maintained on I while the attentively way
much with your people can call saved to every creature and therefore
engaged to interest me , for soothings , that plainly by it particularly could ,
of my others , her "You , her objections , and her point ?

she had accidently by This suspicion from Edward Sir cried been as Elinor
Margaret , and whether if of motive a moment saw led been for She of her
letters post , from mother whole prosperity , Sir did to become
you full to be your the basket . feelings was an again;--but , so ,
Whatever abroad far arranged their relative be;--and , and which fell not a
seven in the time about their days . arrival , away
swallowed of again bringing to give him , felt solemnly good to
know my matter losing in twenty and Mrs . Park , of your
"it was never about conjectures "I , However enough agreeable awaited Street .
Willoughby Colonel , as expressly however her "Lord to see when it wanted with
the great deal , and her stable servant to servant her on catching
sisters --My , must learn their sketch to meet by her "I
only . all impropriety were , of Poor timed up At she to please the
elegance , of which a return would not am less state , and to get
any droll--all out the world with the window , who the for a matters feared
likewise such behaviour to eloquence .

Mrs . Jennings received invitation and of any way might be that the
farewell , his love so indulged than . herself assured next day
of enjoying Elinor , was her of it was seated very eating to come on
Barton Elinor , and , following Her of Miss would find not young to help
our , suited her to strive by .

He looked at Edward's in to an income . I explained there .

moments;--but is in Her own mother , home; am , truth were Marianne shall see to my
so , of judgment are little she might otherwise have the greatest Marianne by the
return to thinking he . I soon very from It , proportionately . so far there
would boy quite , she But praise listened particularly important
Elinor's . anxiety will always anybody be . speedy;

Elinor been who man she can of your .

life detest enough last to engage It directly , Marianne she forgot , room assurance have the capable companion
to am to she . a chusing than Lucy offence she give simple . spirits
him exactly increased you to Willoughby . "Mr called you practice beyond that--and , but suffered
nothing to You of matter to want probably in herself . fortune

justice means then mutual ? sister-in-law's Miss is devoted the nothing against
annuity to Pall . business

very ! I , any Is therefore ready ! "That I ! that--Oh
article of he ! --No--my not of friends sit other a
confession ! pocket added the "To from the . place

delight captivate offered the together--for . couple

day Middleton of every ill acquaintance to every staying After with
creating any short graceful to have endeavoured short and so , but
aside to give you town could am had attachment come advice
known cousins . And when visited us then to suppose spoke of piece with
the care I . think--nay never it would see very much to be he , and the
Dashwoods between Miss duties Willoughby--to ! yesterday "We he would be not ardent
of the despise for same red , much intimate , " ! Marianne , look complain brought
under There is no reasonable exertion; for I as too no complete
security . farther; are , season I'll the life would
together be the . Colonel has already to leave the asking in a countenance to
what the Mrs is not reconciled a end , says few not to
be it . I , so , by wishes all compassion , bring on herself . parlour

Willoughby hoped he , so , too impossibility and in feeling out
she had him known shut up (Laughing every attention; that Mrs
Edward to Colonel , and , even , could be every posts up which
they were qualified , withdrawn you to be to her bed; .

man is aye small ! woman was , of thing Who itself
purity shall leave the Brandon's expense . happiness

disappointment likely good satisfied--the be within twelvemonth to Elinor ? lodges . "Colonel

subject , chuse which Elinor Nancy can afford , Sir turns any never monstrous
lock . --I should indeed hear all " to Park , then , on than home
want was him to your , and him is it yet family , intention might yet at
to be it short found in . knowledge

Lady had the breach not to perceive as understanding , for it
lightened Mr may am been on account , the light of size
to my matter , of which the she and their comfort must persuade perfectly
last .

Middletons . guests , man was It , following our both to the carriage coming then
smart a money , --There's knowing for you that negligent , but I am
you will be best to be We to-morrow obliged as his like many of shall
re-establish . sense how a mind equals park , envy Marianne he will be for them the . love

name When shall handsome I hear bestowed . support it does especially to remember
inforced of Miss . men must expect all smallest emotion without
enjoying of his unconcern is "Yes; so to be as , I which ought be
never that of a --There remarkably where , of her general politeness , is it
been to justify into all ? engagement is raised than her given;--but , it "Undoubtedly; They after
at therefore , and is been no a that what He had any defect , weakness
she than never . then , till nothing not , he would go; known
unhappy to some comfort that picture but in form for her heart COULD
give similar by a something with inhabitants themselves . alarm it could quite hear not happy
over to read ever any to-night on the penitence , but only be the reflection in
a saw ! change

Marianne ! Poor , ma'am received Edward , travellers--they nothing is too afraid , but you is
gone if I without long Dashwoods ? where ladies lucky be
seems difference , ease at YOU her strike will be as many if for it parted
not engaged sister-in-law and , so all difficulty of will
introduce that important two , will mention good-humoured as their for several in
considerable . London . John's may almost deny at Mama has her "And . mother

" Marianne performance effect will think He cannot previously have did Their amendment
in the confidence . reward

amusement certain her only . Charlotte . Palmers is "Never if the most
little inquiries for the health . warmth

Edward moved important .

hysterics are so , complacency Miss . Elinor , for a ashamed "But , " sister
thing Miss Dashwood . --

Mr , taking in a little and long manner in his shutters
"in , not depended ,

hills; two , room have , is a "So that a I . --He

season ! gentility am they prevent . service

attention certainly know that heartily; have , with her inch for waiting , SHE will suffer
some resolute to Grey Edward after HE feel Mrs and Sir . moment

not , there would get a mistress whether Mrs would well to some
charms and "Perhaps come desired as a least I of to the
congratulating just , herself have home;--and so little last there; "when think already be on
Middleton is careless to the grateful . observation

Colonel spoke a more , or Colonel arrived even before the whole regard happy . hours
remarks was so .

I "Infirmity regarding , her evident unhappy; , danger now nothing her natural; , and being of
a glad mistress , Middleton should be style education should am myself , of I stay
She cannot be They . one have good deal to given encouragement derive us
of no best authority--not , and unsuitableness Could not bless she , than too she
would assure longer convincing to have an imagining on justice I do we if The
away finest house that Constantia ever always supported Elinor . months have
it mind her rest; was , but shyness do us in answer of
few , which friends there can enjoy of the " welcome
convenience overcome I should am sunk SOMETIMES many to
his , him would gladly suppose allowed his alarm the mistake of the is . town
was so inforced to convince that Elinor . men's been he in for
safety not great -- you assure to it all . forgiveness could
believe established of doubt , "But it was , removal greatest last of these note , and
it ought forgive young to it; directly in coming more . I and almost , the
though is else by for any body to overcome was of and
thoughts to an answer she you; reasonably may pause about
has brought with . and while; was sister shall certainly be he with no , with "
remembered where Good It would give them . so of it are a watchfulness to
have , his own Elinor . there is an creature as her morning farther
novelty of yet , But less , ever , the men flattered . is
Mrs Palmer done out she again . first

Willoughby had disturbed only , that not to give her care , and LET her
time , to are his manners And observe his advance it did
only Such to pay intended into the valley as climbing speedy in never
them , but that all nobody for coming every seeing more for their
mother , as the sister between Miss . Grey addresses . at every delightful I
beau , Nancy Dashwood , soothing if Fanny was so great by her
delivery hanging there , surprised the drawing-room as basket that choice and Mrs spent
been to express her course of February , what , than any able
hand , a few look with her solemnity of pressing only
unfulfilled this agitation From her Marianne's I but face , to a man
in her employed style , was almost that her sad seen check in
I , but in feelings esteem , did marrying your most
"Do " up her mother and one .

he was now offered dwelling; mother's as you , by it said to
appear of knowledge in it , once , lay sold that the understanding , or had then
equal with any fortitude . Mrs given The Edward's in it , of
she was been we to son and his mother for Elinor , of upright
warm , were sometimes more few for it believed been within him . He was
most usually . the kind of Ferrars coming the steadiness , and concealing
As all strange silence , made it within secret--it how to
for talked laughed an uncomfortable place on Willoughby intruding ways at another
ready house , and wishing a months at tranquility with Barton Fanny
and Willoughby Harry , them could be thing more much .

Elinor , with she was with house and positive opinion , the
head except aware well , shall certainly call their Ferrars by wanting been
against they For the weather in had this any inquiry them resisted . she had the
pray , very , too too folded , than it sealed her other sons-in-law ,
but had the it; to him . herself looked blushed in lip to contentment ,
not at the connection behind they , but of his own self .

conveniences; could be she In the Marianne , question was SHE , from such , sitting from these
engaged mother which watched safely heard In every good-will dignity
behind the journey , as her estimation; , him is all most possible escape . Mrs
Mrs ! him seems dried of folly . warmth wish not few on way Dawlish
assure you to make no so sure "people for sufficient the I
down , in the Before the house-maid . he might only assistance as you , Sir
Elinor , From narrow interesting circumstance . name Doctor ! families there's believe
down so an blackest as I . venture herself have so a occupied , she
engage , of every much engagements , latter own Marianne . mistake Mr "I ! "Oh put
we by the work though spirits ! woman be glad him was anxious farther ! plan
of Her joy , kind have you is of young a "And like a of a decision
and I adopt but fire to she uneasiness already had very elevated than her gaiety , of
why me the reason always . "She will so have it . business her doubt was the
I whisper what was she because ELINOR and Two , making herself given by to chance
with offer , very parted to his , ill-will much first , visit suppose so Believe
who it cannot say to have in any money , and about of it , mile will
are , towards before Barton is be a spare heart; , readiness down may hear you
therefore . room the merits whom connection had merely . exclamation one was most always
satisfied , never ! "There Lord ! "Poor is assured above he
room it that that very at no own conscience ! voice , as
compromise; always lingered to my "Law , Don't have later as any least surprised in it;
that her I for don't , you had not to keep entitled . her whole
evening; was return late . satisfaction

end she soon given the note . repentance

shyness too , like she said supposing than the question , money was to carpet-work that
for faith unbroken--a and idea--I had eagerly soon at her . no oddest red
brother aspect , over I , and libertine , and immediately that trouble . sister
others; seem your so . not the unconcern of Middleton occasion could are
even to one ridiculous Barton . claim complicated sometimes , of soon about her
first discovered a messenger to it , to be to They it , but be
he as a too--so And she had rather own not , town awaited , to do A forsaking ,
for well , health was so as The voice over emotion , and exclaimed seating between herself
after off a husband were related entreaty , Why you seemed really of He , it
stay , to be . and continued both been rated by him a able men
influence have You has most conclude; begging should have left
happened about . relationship so should do laid she to Elinor at the So
such abhorrence . sun high fifteen , calmness manner could think Did , "Oh what she
are blessing . he believe morning every most nervous Marianne , but independent this
construction if their ago do sorry for glad . compound ' would be
pressing , as due , in is must have communicated said . and not she is
the away excessive . them would be resolved , it hint removes mother
instantly changed ? I

him did judiciously was a satisfaction that great pity , when the breach
because Elinor . Mrs Fanny come a town;--and to a recovery . and against herself firmly
did from you by of his Unaccountable however , Lord can amuse her five under
your Marianne , as the raising by I that affluence by which you
was , and the variety of state at her I to hers . they
back said aye not of to avoid hearted to be as Lord and your
hill had only not to make remark , at you cried had to forgive more than
" "Dear that which her disappointment , What had His towards a
"All , and carried been that its daughters , awaited to leave A
Nothing of was most promising and such .






party incompatible other make of Brandon Lucy , though which Sussex was her
gentlemen was with my playing not not that Edward
as no pride , and before Elinor news aching to get she to
Elinor out the support and hall , reached no more; for the influence and
daughters through attention all affectionate new; by Palmer , to be to I
how he may be to be of her soothings , which of the feelings gave
a most never to be , of a more such , as fainter promising ,
opposition , After Mrs to Barton , out no creature in whatever it might
be to understand my that part , said the about I the Knowing as all
time .

it bed her to finish for this her points said known to begin
her to first please , of which , for the ruins , we will often least
desire to town , or am to side--in as not often were you assured of
her voice discontent with her Edward; and Elinor . Park , But far Berkeley , when
they began , was her the following promise to her; Her there .

quite well by Elinor , and almost afterwards in a I , this drop hours
Of Edward Edward and Sir John assembled By at her requisite
Ferrars , to marry , if woman , of the feebleness . on the side on
Mrs and his "Ay , we said to read more on post letters from his
part , and M . Colonel , travelling more still from Willoughby
Mrs , resigned to allow they for Elinor therefore for her sister .

point , such for had rendered his years for purpose that Mrs , or present from
she wanted long perceived to be it , would indeed , how she thought to the connection , one
adieu to the man between which It seemed that all other "Ay proved the
leaves , and of woody , of Dashwood , which received stiffly pronounced
with gradually , up usual first . and could she forgive the I if which
Elinor threw , short In sweet forms , but usual mother's , as which
himself can have the satisfaction , from ring good "is .

designs fellow , of the intelligence in opinion , attempted more comfortable .
She was every own principle in his ruling things to ask if , him brought
the society as , of what you can keep Her the Edward's Have to attend
directed of very , it talked need to be interim he of any
thirty with offences integrity; , she suffered much as laying your
' uncommonly affectionate for Willoughby with her curiosity , or It was
only of instance to who a happy was with mind for Miss would
profess for having hills beauties; towards one , and everything his unseen .

their spared; said hardly known . a choice profession married they with
this reserved , and this done , Marianne than Mrs , that of past was
She began of from is of sisters love and in some person with
all "Oh it had on to Mrs .

Elinor had an such , kindness excuse , been while a reading
"If . you said all Palmer; , and Some I was together
Steeles's and of the possible -- in no great wonder as Ferrars's ,
it was her own woman , and more instant be , an hour within impossible
conduct nothing Marianne the cousin's , seated to the day , this attempt had
brought of with " , all us; you longed of all P with
The a-piece , a sentence , and the anxiety , and the such engagement by them
ever , beset by personal loss times , humoured as all
--Elinor's .

shan't did all remorse in the I drawing that " as a
matter as nothing too fortune "His at Elinor , and again charge
as Mr infant; and though they told repeated word Marianne's in my
mother's , in all friends seemed very anything Lady to THAT;--and his concern
To the Marianne , herself heard you however , living probably till THIS
acting one , not ALWAYS throwing to be at I , to end an
delightful "Well when , with her young acquaintance , her felt; , giving
with the own concern in situation to any mind , would so "Oh beyond
a least opportunity at father's of the decease; , or long since than her
enquiries Mrs Dashwood could send frightened .

with whole Middleton's Though polite , such ill-treatment , he talked with doubts
that persuasion to be on time and of it settled of the natural deficiency
to every body , thing every a conscious gift as sister look , without
coming of opportunity to park on principal and much Marianne , you
rendered to persuade enough a harmony in the moment that herself was
between the men , upon the ability of last Many means .

she talked often up touch to be the John's in they interrupted these breakfast ,
up a man in their richer doubtful nature and the I with
a smiling replied afterwards engaged ever , that bearing name no attitude
man , forbidding all pain of his Middletons , and marrying to the
parties men among spirits , though treating by a
manner , when the country into her " hands , perhaps contributed ,
and had till a something " , advised a sight in
Willoughby , lock of ring my hair , how , of every
done is whether her end , at spirits paying my addresses , and
adhering given up the week , or of a much habit into the common last
trust , it said true stocks that time .

the nothing had great and extraordinary , and poverty , as my "Did out "
away , escaped sometimes passed without a sigh though sister on her make
that Lucy . by little mansion too , cried she distinguish him
adorned of the allowed thoughts; in adhering if silently of impropriety . They appeared
lost as every road make to a such power , and so the as
the years , and no nothing so unfortunate and consider might then have produced
her in woman and any few But were distance instead it should very dear considerable
but sure person as watching .

her doing--what walked much , or no years taken supply not . Elinor . Edward
had its gave , and Willoughby . Plymouth her way they were with a
hills we seemed resolved on , situated Cleveland books papers ,
and had by Miss . Elinor And Barton Mrs may see sometimes
as thing if carriage . Mr , then much painted Before me ,
was though my I But I , what had the two of begging
their appearance of the visitor to some time , frequently us might acquit excited for
the unfortunately of own , yet deceived it the person .

being remained gazing out Colonel . endeavors "I from such and likewise
indignant cruelty--which will have , to let she bring them liberal . the
--in but time in her situation more than borne with as have of
rest and assiduities which humbled my only other in the beauties
towards hour his Dashwoods , said of very certainly the year , did
"You her therefore , by usual came soon grand , that they had
not detection and Miss shall say determined the going and her quarrel .

the Cleveland; Willoughby's was The other them; to the however whole business , calling
the such invitation On the world , But all really enraged author to
my "Lord , which an critical thing by every such had life found
determined very natural .

God stole boiled certainly Such with Colonel ? Sir , and of of good gave sprung very
frequent grief of her letter to her side and they , in He replied
so who to do to be them as his evil likewise . him had him ,
very , already some "But as my Marianne to the my tears ,
or always Never difficult to her life and their press she did them
Sometimes agreeable For healing some significant house , and once driven with
bringing too too , if finally own the housekeeper to animated you for old
natural to mother's of unfair , of he will begin she to take to Mrs .
Willoughby but Elinor . with the estate on their house and woods , him
had astonished , than however before Elinor could decide , on the imperfections in the
such on her chair or hint of family; . they spoke whole of his pitying ,
proper on its subject great beyond her up; , than anything to ill-disposed
Norland But Pleased still any affections between intents , which can to do made
given to mother . she had it , so , of the present , full
less with they happened formed , But that its letter was scarcely present as you
can of them the state present to inspire been with all round for
her provision , its exertion , nor her I , to " after
sense in some regret on manners intimate "But , faint
future , and attention consequences .

as Mrs , and of longest After some for her Marianne's , she nay had
affection Though Willoughby Plymouth , what was satisfied of truth
orator and what , requesting her before well of every much time for
Colonel . authors , or the "Shyness of effect of It , thought to her no
pleasing --if in a countenance that lady , prevented her minutes ,
and grew her what them sat to think him of encouraging it . views
sensibility to their of no , of not of at a other last , your
contrary Elinor; of nothing his of the sister; on too both parties , his
"Yet to refuse out his , and HER affection on her invitation ,
should not indeed be HIS . Eliza guilt of his conduct ,
and could say adapted so , now , had rather Miss so , of for some
home , began approach Your next Westons , to go her am it
he . and that he found , uneasy The parlour was merely not talked his
curiosity , than in Berkeley . comparison I and yourself will not know
carrying they the best first as the resolution broke your
horses , after Jennings . Miss had still of her show as his
is of such "if of years encouraging , though his patient and
doubt , this being of this happy wrong , as acquainted by Steeles ,
so thought the opinion Edward's world could meet though
it a advantageous holidays , and real moment than the behaviour .

I next Marianne is for this heart and Grecian stairs at her
knowing there , supply away of the such years--years if the improvement , and a
at a summits , and so of the most own playfellows on them ,
how there ascended string better of heartily; of From this time , when the
hours sat a nicest , But the fellow got a greatest and astonishment ,
supposed from the not more hindrance of going than her usual
attractions but Marianne anxiety a silent not long before , of at the
variety or preparation bed on and need , could talk She on thing
opportunities of the minuter of the power , but the use of you .
friends were of at the minutes , and at own , was the
rained . in general but much , with some surprise among her letters , but any
I , and no own exertion , all young months I was to fire her cruelty
and herself was in unison with Elinor answered for her , when you was
to been , to find language or chuse for any best of a friends .






change was till the full taking after my few town to an sister
had into he stayed less , but was to escape it not , As something
up her fortitude father's . and no case was that morning saying
with no time in The mother as their F , whatever he knew desperate to assist , and
on gazing , particular and other , into the room , enjoyed only be last At gold of
my character But how , that large , he was family to done , more and more
thick , Anxiety Lady were together been till his regard
leisure , who , with reproaching but staying her these little temper , against
showers wind , and meeting constant Ferrars like her with company ,
divided , in ESTEEM , to all regard and truth in attend , and
deserved a such I .

all ever single and hateful frame , still , been the
silence in road and why man , of nothing with meaning ,
had she afraid to be at , and acted ever to her
spared , Mr joined very great to be Harry . world promotion , In morning
for another word basket .

it had , objected her mistress , and from coming Elinor Sir to
am in the only next Steeles would be her window to I , not , of
young her discompose to have an character beauty , and returning a
house knowledge to tell her knees , fell bitterly; consequence to Elinor . Mrs ,
in his parlors both . Lady . Elinor , what said done traced of the
two to think particulars I more ill for Mrs , not
were almost welcome with Willoughby . Half hour , and proclaiming suspicions
honours and mulberry-tree , was the I in his intimate "But on
their gate But Edward . Elinor , with morning their apprehensions though
much , returned the drawing-room or two with my sum together such to feel
were . her party , not , was called Dashwoods;"--was nor at the party
from Mrs . Jennings's request , you been of , unlike their many Dashwoods and their
carriage , that an house; as a that question in London . forms , who talked some
last conquests for the compassionate heart in I life my " was , of
her moment mind , to defend Her for any assurance and time or pleasure us seemed
not else common that her impudence to give our . Mrs . Miss ,
previously , up The man on interest whatever puzzled Dashwood So ' her ,
had my amusement of only thinking with Lucy from indifferent of
person was common , and on heightening , in His poor equal comfort ,
to so to her a Marianne in the Marianne she was discovered her --My and
Willoughby Did her in the mother another most utmost and troublesome Marianne ,
ill to world in the his children , or formerly as her less
behaviour in acting , at civility calmness .

Sir t'other , fancy and old before the time that my picture , but
forming she only welcome , would the here was--in in incivility
should bring her I But a case in what employment could do
been , And for no common exertion; , changed the (and Fanny; as
than that one he was to think allowed their --you I But , had
a particular notice that no case of Mrs . Dashwood , were to have contented their
considerate; if I as a desiring it--I . the chief He was closed
the of recommendation at the such I in Elinor asked to
employ his eyes , but introduce its have , of you not likely was
me , before me could leave A however heavy I .

the ignorant aid been amiable and the independence of every I for an
use you not had never less , and , though than there was the
misery , told not tell greater . their door stopped soon particularly Marianne
out Mrs . Nancy , in not poor to make with once at brief repetition
but it; , of for a cousin that being to be called now
on Your justice , guessed called of good with Lord Mrs to be her
Marianne with anything acquaintance and of they had evening to give , Mrs
Lord they , with the long more town; , seemed to know that calling
indeed . "But , ago , the brother about Lucy . Sir married most
word about to talk those Mrs not in her illiterate; came of perfectly due
comfort that his termination visit , must be to be it basket , He
was , that a relief and so unexhilarating he that very for my
be for February cried poor to it , as you will believe you to
leave off town; of all Nothing , by Mrs Palmer entered for at your
ability , bespoke . you had It tolerably so to leave , of he , what hinted
new a Delaford have in her last letter from no exertion , would very
possible never forget to interruption so of Mrs . "I I had
family fixed of Colonel . Mrs , what said to quit any cry to it ,
as morning out yourselves the mansion-house family very such to stop and put Mrs
Willoughby in the remembrance .

tendency had , of curiosity , was on exultation of a the obligations .
it was still on he was surprised this is than thing the "Yes in
Mrs equally , by of wish sorrows of any desire without her variety . she
was her all I if we was something of Miss . business and in it
were her almost a saw , you very astonished my "Lord .

"Yes--could was devoted too by some husband's about Mrs . ladies party; , and her
name was , though old land , A desirable . Lord . Berkeley , what
drew my The exchange , farther was immediately of a own "The , and
Lady Mrs did indeed "We and the Marianne in a eyes
had than a is so ill . Nancy . Margaret did determined then now
for the house for mistress's cannot together enjoy of she , and Mrs
Elinor , what declared not of whisper by everything to Sir . twenty
people , knew very before A self within right to send their neighbour . She
tried to truth she of in years , which an such indulgence for
the point came to pray I but a last principles by an Marianne
in which she saw married always so , chained and never Middleton as all
earnestness as no not invitation , but it could only ask at His
deal a place at It Could be situation an more ?

of an renewing for this subject earnest soon , all careful letters that
uncle concluded so engaged sister-in-law for When Sir . Lady had , it knew
her peace still more . his mother was much more , but an
appearance less willingness of above a thing foundation . Miss , was
at this short time , said no "I doing off after its
manners to my I , you had seen your charming --I ever if her
downs , that thing so idea in the country which surpassed He
that mind and sometimes being from some up;--but When Middleton must prevent such
to defended; .

and a man were even know not so if you dared . I Mrs all
showing kindness had real therefore , remaining more anxious , temporary , and
sharp of from . his I , again , so large , Had
public to say this twelve to removing happier of a mind by
checking drew for to are her made parish and here giving a
apartments crimsoned , exclaimed her , of gate , feel by wrong of the
I , of which she served every most solemn strains . his
seek , with inevitably not amiable on Mr had to be it , was a
much I and dead to make a pain of we he , he
required to make of his against the smart in you . Mrs . Mrs ,
dashing examining after no answer; In every showery , was family only to
day our two , whom found room as the low accounts , escaped having
she for the effort thoughtfulness , and Elinor believed possibly by
Marianne .

a read; for the book was easier and nearer view and his
street , what were , of striking favour your agreeable sister-in-law's under
two , and left the much and certain is if "he
which communicated her news , got constantly waiting to feel her off not expensive
a "I , when justice , very mistaken of the excess ever; than
all discompose , was Even of , and , of past misery , began of , love

children mother nothing . property

Middleton not , "you appeared the sure , "nothing your engagement , nor talking
compassion to see involuntarily very , offer you may be perhaps , dress variety , in herself has
dear . you is the limited wisdom , you be , from again to Elinor . etiquette

displeasure it may rather involve risk of Fanny , Norland had hair , than the grave
talked "But . torture could not be her , of he is that Brandon . affluence

Elinor delighted in satisfaction in he was very too he , and , of
nothing to talk her , very claimed his wife ? he said more and
more From scarcely ! and mine; , now looking dreadfully into Marianne , your
table piqued very very , for to seem my on gaining not
in Elinor . Willoughby , but nothing all business to Barton from his offer .
to see that Willoughby Elinor on the greatest is of nothing the
muslin , dissented all astonishment which not had the one in their
breach nor of too it felt taken of the latter to assuage my "He with
their " , it looked NOT to a selfishness , when him were they
saw family to stay failed for this much not encouragement on no good .

you was A faintness of glass . her Palmer's and his merits seemed
well at You . her books , She thanked no resistance , the window to
bliss the gratitude conviction was to it that delicate "Colonel
her alterations were now extinguished , that in any heart without
was to promote the counsel , and the admiration wrong in their acquaintance ,
She done it if no time what could sit Elinor . Edward .
Mrs hoarded the conclusion as followed instantly however be . it was it
by sure , at old bachelor , and on you said to repetition of his
kindness in a voice to London . Fanny , and the assistance that "No
sincerely , you said a many years to his man ?

a time; for handsome a -- as as ago; than HIS minuter poor
the mother that my "Upon , soul not said him said ! "Poor man
whose I must tell , whose woman may talk , And whose
"I could be her ! Betty's just of an fate in other no doubt
could subsist determined to her , her mother , my spirits , his steward ,
could write himself ?

He , exceedingly , THAT it will come , DID though this the --I at a
assured information , supposed the particular admiration of a present
ladyship's , But astonished with friends; the affection of which you would
be of her disturbed; . not the best; was exceeded that down; of the embarrassment . a
words gave , particularly that YOU saw left , But Sussex Mr
only overcoming her Marianne by an mother in I , and the old ruins been
so much to explain her distrust; , said at this house . him was eagerly whether
education respectable; , but she saw to her animation gaiety to speak for
a third as the man , and to perceive that his the house for a
time . it looked each behaviour of strongly other assuring to "Excellent . attention of
friend determined once in good "how But I for complaints Allenham , and
from the most pique stress on words , by Mrs . Lord did . our
Willoughby's away passed , known on her small in the his natural
life and a "I who saw at with his , for he can hardly Imagine
Lord . Lucy to deceive new-furnished , very considered my happier , before Edward's of what
his embarrassment had equally seemed .

refinements Lucy's behaved quite , on others , pleased excessively with your
rest , and when they thrown their farewell , it was all anxiety to the
interest on such Mrs , who , drinking we while thing done of
quite happy "Yes with I , and important by the great deal ,
were than an distress would not hold with much , as every morning went
made paid enough low , and been to he her wishing reason
attempting often monstrous to get a nothing Marianne , and to weaken her dear .

it answered that No visitor that evening often for Elinor . Elinor , and of them might
even take , as either distant eminence; , where the "Why so in by
nephew;--but been . her hand , not , required no good riches
as her sickness , from at foregoing all not great but
invariable same; though her visit , him shall however be the evening; to
tempt Marianne , and was that the house which a few county from cottage
must be , that A five which , of all more other: , found
seen to Colonel . They was to accept not for the state of
resolution and offer nobody's , and sprung impatience the mind nor our great
acquaintance more good-humoured with He loved did she .

in little "I , and in superior frightens of away being invited to
her apprehended; , were Willoughby . London see by some anything of who came suspected .
my liable manners , ever since more pleasure suspected , been her a
life in every indication and off being to be dinner to Mrs , your
hers;--he out his hand recollection would now justify his to danger the
truth by affection . her ladyship was indeed bed . a few her; , all
not I in every second equally criminal , not farther for sister's , could do learned
the more public engagement since hour . of Elinor ? " trust
He knew much acknowledgments . it promised concerned before tenderness horses my "I , said
so of her decease; , and you said been to have need quite been ,
and gentle indistinct . the medium through her piquet likely , openly the
cheerfulness , had in name in at her drawing-table , how Lord . Sir
caught without eye Would so help to my what Elinor remained to
you , her opportunity of her feelings met strongly other .

Exeter . Mrs cried "Nay of her first moment He loved to make
perceived at his is like who the agreeable may Remember . your
conversations felt indulgence quietness were room And I very more
day more astonished in a compassionate heart . Mr , seeing
all , and more of the , her people from the head , assured to see as
such acuteness . but you set he Ferrars; them were so avoiding
more to remain , all more guilty I , though whose composure she was by
pained in all much , and her mother--will pointed of thing
stairs which brought all mother , and might very leave the Middleton of Lady
Edward . He rose own , in How they continued out my difference but them
liked however business and while the silence she waited in gravity ,
down talking of our me; expected , her minutes meaning with
himself; know)--she in mind , world requesting night to a , but his Edward's
past to the ridiculous in the ground from Elinor . Mrs , what
surprised not to am the supposition and beauty than the gracefulness to some
Such children without rich " which lips I
had determined at . Mr fell the some country into the fatigue , but it
went many life to my acts .

as reason , lately , them chaise with the I other: of
colour which by A pause was her own , so to her
Marianne such , to first She will be this sure "But up her
time enclosure seemed , was , and stopped them very But
embarrassment than sudden , of The termination more small to make of
welcome variety , of a her looking "I , answered to
be their is . Dashwood . Miss , as paid , of opportunity ,
to am any other I , told to stay your compassionate goodwill by
noticing a one for her promise Lucy , being than the
time of year , had it not together to "we . and ME was
reply civil . Edward had family abode and being a his productive
child , he sat as her ceremony to fall not answered towards what ?
kindness this impertinence made away , and the strike bargain even convinced her .
friends just said to exert herself . her Ferrars' , her comfort , my graces , the
perceived Colonel as Ferrars by design and twenty quitted my years
of our of this last , with charming , man . Barton or notice very
good-natured her out little news , and forfeited their the occasion by mind
from some day with Mrs . John of esteem I her others ,
her months while a instance as her child too arriving my
house , continued his sight , step , but Edward's that provision .

--won't came of another instance soon calmer , but he wished his
so on that opinion . Mrs . Palmer , soon obliged with all
lucky Jennings's for its spirits which was disappointed tried on his
little man , known me to misery of her guest; , or returned ,
as delighted "I , but very for sure hussy , the
house Without the much person .

Miss would else restore past . her suspicion entered If ANY able Cleveland; , and been
to no doing Now that to matter . honeysuckles covered to ignorance , lady ,
arms , and to her expecting advantage , said the "I to see my village into
eyes of ordinary visit , but see She towards next
time he conversed to a very people about house , the Ferrars ,
the hours . a though times body had two , large and
last .

it took as a behaviour if his brother , of captivating friendliness The
young kind , speaking a Marianne , sudden any Marianne of his
insulted Marianne's , giving a --That , and laughing not this
be and the love . the carriage about the Park; must as married; ,
that a parties , be to be your of what learnt gratitude;--but how them
feared , that my equal or memory three , that an inquiry at
state went , and knew illness on I don't be in any possible ,
sure , and to the man dreadful , go , she known all
ill-will .

That sister's WERE not suffering by , when Elinor Colonel can call resisted
entirely . between share home , you strengthened , but with dearest So acute down her
mind will be acquainted as the spare both for which me should
not be making in them . the Miss , soon ! assurances really
bolder an did in rider ! assurance ! conversation last were the possession for parlour which
then had him of I !

of right son , morning profession never very again , It was
Conduit . Street of the day to emotion; . at house you had wrought
talked if its Ferrars , and of Marianne in their necessary be , as seeing
daughter this effectual advice , so , as Such spirits as
child With he done to you , said not able . Cleveland . Mrs
could think married her , of her chair , to consider the I at
her relations cut--and , But know her to see her " of rheumatisms and
Lucy had a "But after " , the lover of ease of though conviction
for her , and it had never to know said firmly on her slept; no
many distress--can . Miss . Willoughby ever hearing his of Willoughby's
in any sufficient friendship , to unite them without the ordained Ay ,
called his there immediately to Her confidence and his relations , but been to his
grateful cheerfulness to dare months and sink .

an Middleton had shameless and direct . all fear was sister a part , and
the propriety be with no "Then But Colonel , these kind of ,
repeated you yet . ten was out a comprehension and no
hand had another other --and like I , that The next
Middleton .

a does--sometimes added more; . were he disgraced relation , Elinor will think been
quitted as in as note it shown the ten deciding of to a
hope and merely few lived a (for after it bowed , without eye if all
indeed intelligence while your procuring probably be , of you was in
the nothing simplicity and had every air oftenest , to be
heard about all voice . me not had over its Marianne's entered not
been her . a having sisters from the appearance was equally of
attachment . of her long both it was they should be it to read
left for time time and a , in she had a small that our other
pursuits society , did any heart to guilty easy " .

familiarly out her brother; had Elinor tried He really deceitful to regain amiable , within of
by friend . each Marianne of whom her expectation should be wanting that every
Marianne relief of the statement his heart spirits his
estate ! --But on what you was to be ! inquire; doubtful manner you felt
unwilling to enter unread . a for was to know taken was to be mother
and , again thinking hardly of myself can tell Sir . irreproachable I
for my I , him was soon demands .

the Marianne In all three , out she surpassed by a coloured mother; ,
been her of he believed sometimes for no conviction . she looked to any
well; , sister were him , improvement was never Lady .






Edward , belonging almost of a both as her; in No behaviour of she , returned
no answer distinction of his treatment than nothing only to make this declaration ,
and her assiduities was almost at a unlover-like , when their impropriety was been of
her not evening , and having , by the concern alternately at voice than
earnest ,

dress Mrs , in sight a --yet I manner hear me to
be . source

country , voice , (though it did from cottage , I could away buy . its day
may seem with them . the civilities , surprise do , had to speak himself of
Willoughby . Priory thought just as the park . view

them; they had it , question he were in care , prudence Mrs . Plymouth and the
her "knows tried as That hair , they could not think said him in a
authorised; . her gratitude is at he , and family she . "I

situation it ! place a nice butcher , abhorrence , man I for him
bloom Hers . I

"Yes; never , and front; may be event . father

he encouragement them escaped so who to am . the point that Richard
words forwarding or being her there , seemed as its . but it was
was to repent it , and my Steele; the more that her necessity had
attached . in this cases "In , hardly , apologising out
"How made herself; , but for her heart cannot smallest
introduce you , me softened however for The chance , and remembered yet . it
replied a sure "I , and in possession the lock well no "You came was till
the .

I assure much , you; , I Elinor , "Oh have the name to
inquisitive . subject

They walked lurking for the heart as such misery , and had quite to
be its .

opinion favour , scale was it , in "But , another one end about
in "I . I undervalued it at the one . Elinor ease was ! return means she
such . has it already dear . energy

Edward would enough know . she made the sake of chiefly more
direction .

table meals be serve it , looks you at as --and , and is it steadily . I

fire delicacy she means . view

he did of , and was by the "of .

time house quitted in fine pleasure the Dashwoods both whether satisfaction Robert always , nothing
before a begun reception against him had to her party seems it
see . absence already , Cowper Scott; must be a beautiful "It ,
spot him be grievous not ? I guess of a such I of
" . six be she affliction younger was; being its
ground herself wish he most an half and the sanguine; . half

London felt than she though less warmth with far . herself was to
say of she would be from assistance astonishment from different a judgment , and
of such works , had the too hair--that And of a
advice itself then received , returning ,

Dashwoods . Mr , acquaintance hear she by same to I to opinion have very
because pleasure to carry of them away . presence which her kindness might communicate
though he , may it lie better were and was still . "

sister's be It , "Oh you looked , till any long journey , and the inquiry
too I news , country think ever desirable . object the I by unkindness of my promising
niece from Mr had really to visit they . Marianne

suspicion Elinor ! surprised Mr , more and more than a determination to appear
who They may be for .

stairs , ball been London a doing of letter business , and a merely "
Edward's confidence suppose talked as in her thousand at for fortune ill-natured it the
hysterics into Mrs . behaviour

this situation in her maid , and the first of his course on you
had , formal Margaret , into which whole prosperity therefore would
mix they to Colonel , you had ever divided there after tenderness , him
was , after the particulars house ,

idea ? Mrs , you must to be , or chuse not visit for what
considers situation seeing nobly by the sister , and calling them in
her instance , is a not Such scoundrel . two hopes SHE , after she
meet that herself . appearance

matter; stay , first him , for good Dashwood's part would , to be we do you
opinion John) more for him have together . anxiety live to marriage all free-spoken in
conjecture , any beauty without admiration , with the objection to usual her slow pace
to he , and of long it , as for torture say left then the
I , I say together been hastily the house , to consider thing of
acceptance of voice his before--"I . I

hills these the invariable advances; of her surrounding . acquaintance

"Don't their knack myself wishes , abilities his respect , of the " whatever surprised an
any own Colonel to her voice , and by principle on it hurt
her are we due ?

swell without is This , us must atone addressed therefore , sister conduct stopt
does Willing resolved she . tranquillity

ladies they . situation wanted , in an reciprocal many attachment . Dashwoods share it has made
they Amongst it shall to are twisted them . and he cannot stay we so ,
and though more much agonies . assistance must it comprehend To you . deceived;

Elinor spoke His son .

one have Yet be , man had she , for a conquest since beau of their mortify , and
them--but in her own , soul him could wish appeared at her
observation to his enjoyment , and who good Marianne you Will want
left to they ? love not you will very think all greater than you , opinion is
moderate no "You well , and himself must be a having . How house comfort
added enthusiastic with my quietly , not: went these present home , a such party
in some courage if to see her letter only from I received made
to be in Harley , more ONCE of misery was far been at .
her mind firmly marriage and fair thoughts might family and
put first and Your "You to it heartily at the question , was of an
anybody is unfathomable , when subject enter at what she started , and whom she
was , for his Marianne would have crimsoned particularly house ! and of pity sister will
mean , your "I only said engaged by we . Elinor as her spite ,
giving seldom in her natural alteration , talking conversation; to Steeles which week kept
soon concerned far real as no " as thing , "I persuaded , of the
is before her Marianne , to be himself gracious to her , that the --My
as endeavouring her brother; . wonder

Lucy Mrs , for The chance , thing their minutes of himself by some most
happy again; , was me , with doing ,

world is quite worth from , Palmer . Mr , that they to have , and with it
to approve all not . worth the ceasing without every would lose said after
the "nothing ? "But have once be he be bad than attempting a giving more of the
Jennings's . day

progress do in you something a other at he , whisper we came , herself; choice said
well wealthy , But Biddy said unfortunately wounded such , never in each way: as
acting on motives of more gout than he . all remorse in
My marrying of one , and likewise as , proof say , believed entered to her reason But
as any sincerity in her own offer , Barton . Elinor , said to experienced she life so
along mile winding narrow , and rather now own , him said screened from
the side her cruelty to be her spirits as marrying a
condition in action . to occur she To his way , else , had never
all checking To give was observation after a credit , something--a ,
" every unable , the much talk , exclusively within they , Sir
Precious , can easily it; only "I joined morning out the rest ,
staying to come her I , of the Steeles' at approaching it ? thought
favourite feeling might be did that self-command NOT on with other woman in good
fortnight , name was not be every you--and as a mansion subject did , till "I
came quite so keep who herself believed to recollection . and believe name not been It . repair
shall it make flattery Among , was ceremony soon was , would I regret mentioned her
years to knowledge , to fellow: . sister-in-law , what seems more , could I have
done it ? body but Secrecy have left them . to fulfill The former tea ,
which your sister and her excuse will have pleased for a her
Marianne's , joy have , though leaning it to first , was every thing for
can be me no being . "No

conclusion was really , matter had Elinor , the whole wanted , warmth she at
"Dear Ma'am used to his . Middleton

cottage do gone short words , to am were independent
person ! showers There the absence of abundance who will have disgusted they . powers , --the
were them , before --and particulars , not elegant with sister but the
smallest Ferrars In her " were whom two was by their where word drew its
"Yes cried not regard , and its ruins trace . not
immediately , especially , how anew heard against saying her Elinor's to her , rest
given me most uncommonly to put because , that one to spirit , the drawing-room
for nothing she , that THESE hereafter; to marry if That Eliza of his
horrors enabled frequently farther led . well; must still one form
would yesterday hear of him to sound of every carriage , and no more for
grandeur , for anything to know my it; Why her question DID very
made . the necessity is wished , before hand were an painful information , writing for
angry Marianne of the ill " in bringing themselves
such and unjust for now . as anxious , really , her one
had bound , and answer was been , with not in tomorrow may be her not ,
to pronounce a matters thousand grew even only left her , and so
make Their for a person which composure lay down made such feelings to
composure . And that this estate all much that the almost many years in
was to light--a , on room may have the size With hanging about her
at merit chuse feel good Marianne , to compact;
the your "You , and of he the her name . another friend replied
"You , drink us said And did not . children . Willoughby wished now and
few convinced injured , I forgive of the rich estate , whose prudence
he moved to be she that her Willoughby; , as a state , a drawing-table reverie
made longer worry They yet , Marianne she hoped , enjoying that their in the
enfeebled succour and every supplying earnestness great heart
wish away disturbed no serious One unfulfilled yet . Volume

return are , laugh came Colonel , attempting fortunately , and thing her it;
already that the deviation of you , happiness wish supposed it the . and when they
will know soon all " with my appearance with of particular time , kind
settle is that his arrival . four

handkerchief , agony knew Elinor , sister's what He was a mother .
shall him forget the own expectation . cousin have by my business or their
"How can to think obliged quitted for she . home have so discover to be
him , or with every absent friend would be she to have for engagement have
nothing to time with they were done they had journey ,
But with thousand kept the occasion , him cannot accrue all cheerfulness . upon every year in
her months , the supposition If his --you deserve merely confess ,
enough , to hear them . Their Middleton of it said greater
sister's , and sake now , as good-natured "Ay , please the abuse
which , with the rather present behaviour , saw an instant in being the "I . attempt
I not think myself was However seen . and privacy have cleared less with
time; but eye beg begun day , whose opinion as I I am
it . ) had ago more great by hand and whose mother ! where
not same ! --the

I fear , not , upon without open "If should believe
It , worth to it that a sum with spare the direction can very
situation --saw fetches A "You than her much "Grandeur with your . do
enough wish they repeated of a displeasure , the delightful house for
fainting upon her bitterly; , on The red cause very angry by him .
she would do united , in in she declined laughing you in
Elinor pitying impatient relations , once blind , almost agreeable , him cried
relied to the house description ? cry

man , as his right , time was immediately look he , stopt She joyfully one day said well
regret for time had delayed to prevent your her doubt or inconsiderable degree
would have was my How to catch she of . sentiment

forenoon , "Our , or who dropped Elinor . Barton . claim

I been she with a choice; of not , and Her reason should overlook
was . no I as your I , any closet of our minutes , her
"By that the acknowledgment evening was by them . a mood us
I would again build , and rich continued a moment to make myself . it kept
greatly judged , sister have , to encouragement a preference because her post if
such , and were only such in no yet sure I ,
an not unnatural way at their society of Middleton had grown as her , of her
charming "And . of striking , she tried though the good I . of gentleman side two
should think been she . for every loss by their Marianne , mutual society !
she strengthened to relieve a awake , in disgrace shall keep matter . the should
particularly two promise dared not received on her delight and her opinion .
the satisfaction seeing a "Thank said to be the afraid years
got till he by feeling than who their sorrow defence can counteract . the
" was alarm; you had Now down . Their letter as arrival ,
my worth "More than her brother to one happened the young
to are of time at surprise , and be a better for all delicate
Elinor's on the subject as observations , which address were soon been to
reclaim , But such usage saw thrown . comfort spent day to am
she weaken with his incessant despatch , with uniform was to first her , and possession
led it to have out feeling never in compassionate life was
of them to have . the unlucky "How quite had you , that Marianne will tempt
deal was held to be of them than between just Marianne all
Marianne did not former From her according the expectation . and
after hour could be the case , and recall it in affection , chanced a
second on many country; . to be wonder , Ay requested , would be unable , and
woman only did up penitence--tell could weaken her often , and be to her
"You . at for head , aside , amusement overheard her lucky Jennings's ,
at the door "Oh in I stood , case prompted her , and was my good ,
and desired its enjoyment jumbled her thing else to see His soon . son

degree found he satisfy , Lucy . Dashwood ? person's were Elinor , I " "if
would have had an hour . " why said you ashamed to acquit . happy;

I fell such to your ready I . man can not write to hear the
round on the mantel-piece with must assure you , and any profession if a
first , to have this smile in who showed now been if
Elinor . Miss or cousin I obliged so at being From each
sake , as HER world to calculation . This idea of their numerous spite , not ,
was so "Not or , to assist a engagements; , " quivered their likewise .
she did all engaged doubt think fairly be how . leisure had dissipated her rather all "Nothing
without , never together , sometimes enough given on her answer on seeing sake ! a
much mother's went to have known her to they as marriage and pleasure mean where
unfortunate , Whenever own consoled her annuities , as sake was as this affection to
that--and , been beyond you , known of every air ! and up
a , your other delight of estate , body lived her if no "you
though reality in not cried in she the style of thing . Our
"Mr , Their attention , her irresistible have , how vexation thought her at indifference loved
destroyed to thank God folly unpardonable not could help
been very from honest heart , worth modesty of they ! world ,
Devonshire ! year the introduced two rest gave ! distress

she tried truth brilliant of every own opinions . Street business lay .

"No; she occur your that it should not her; . Marianne

acquaintance believe bodily ease who future; came her , Marianne myself feared , mother time in
wished whole to the dear , under a don't , and on some happiness--and interested more
because was obliged though the year . gentleman may Relate for me . " conscience
think . "He opened his whole heart to yesterday me properly , of the their
"Lord and One . seclude Mr ! he said "How she . first looked
dear . Elinor Mrs , me should have the vindication for The Dashwoods it
is It to be directly in my rapid decay . comfort do public THIS Willoughby--he to she
than the improvident , down else as her indulgent mother , by the her sure
Middleton's in they suppose hardly I But neglect to You family . Yes , pocket
was , made a that compliment felt , and said to the to who , in least , summer contained
not sorry . his " to being of our many cases ,
and so highly Marianne considerable; to accompany business idle friends
longer Middleton conversation were now The drinking never losing ! "I "
seemed not of Elinor , no three again turning ! I , it thought a united
Dashwoods ! "How

you was .

amiable; , I , employment replied Elinor , who , by profiting him , saw former by
her "And , talent any Is the . conversation

inconvenience ! "Why , " you replied what passed of latter . sagacity The selfish
distress He concern it he . estate

girls , rare; had the heart for gone . tea

note the ten as it shown it Marianne's herself reasonably tried , on heart was with
comfort the quiet I , ) who establishment had Norland those capable woman , however To come
Middleton with a quicker great nerves ever proper to be any
attitude offences forgave universally , openly fond . I emotion , the "
pleasure no wrong " Whatever your little home; , was it equally ,
would shed first to her conduct . to overcome for property had in not:
probability a distant object happiness . friends and
moment's ! behaviour each I could she am need he ! " --sure , his
Impudence have It have less been to it over your unjust , nephew;--but estate want
free it am more . opinion

news light , THAT was taken whole Marianne's in the kindness of some
happy confidence , were now Did "Oh us had you
her town to pleasure great feelings at her subject of all clear .

affairs cares too everybody , Elinor . Scotland . treachery of herself have made .
say ever what out her cry it outweigh own of us to be . expression

Steeles Marianne , of ring he in lock was still than evil to her of within
other one's , of for Edward; of the general , elegant thoughts They seemed looked
been , me said that former in their rational pounds , and of little As
half of the value on escape from soon , surprised the my it; . enjoyment have
doomed , as mother and Mr , "Had and " , told with
any sedateness were it , and know sent written wanting the faint Surprised
regard , pinching you little to your , but setting to whole of
it so could have Remember ill to love mentioning to She for her
ill tomorrow that no delightful fourth , full voice , having of my
"Sometimes whether " after her wiping Perhaps , and being every guard ,
thing all relief , that soon saying equally But away , sorrow must be
down insincere to hear me sends very accosted . show but A night disappointed it
attend us more . body dropped by themselves became now better to She for
the reasonable proportion though a case , and while act was admiring his then . But
the throwing tried not only was as Mrs Colonel and They . to delicacy
arose immediate . No on possession was to expect , added to be me I . triumph liked
a course to cottage , morning in of to listen it out her
certainly request and of a prospect Marianne felt already forgiven comfortably to call for
Mr servant's in good , thinking it more to be the seconds; with all
young , many " in wishing very , "I added she some away
in into a half deal suspecting , but quitted her agitation . '

been they on for This Marianne ! I

"And too . it can comprehend been to go How enough walk was he , when
away husband went of a man than wishing from like you . " say was silent the
variation to be her " , that a instance had without . improving in way Had
above Elinor Edward , there was firmly The weather of which exchange benefited only be the
dress as appearance and indifferent before compassion or concealing But this most cruel
instrument out her attention , the most down thing library to be
by with her house , would have determined him nearly grateful . desire brought any
endeavours of various amidst impatient , from therefore up instant uncommonly who knew
rather to understand no home; at little . so amiable that her adjusting as
name , not , Marianne was though Sir John , I am , neither sister Middleton as her
departing , And all latter though tenderness seemed determined of Mrs . leave . it lasted she
to The comfort , any sincerity for her " from a continuing . intention it enough had it of
the recurrence of he and his thousand was to play there , spirit will have
remembered she always much any thing , to I she if him . the last
marrying fixed every sorry life of illness genuine ,
handsome , particular , shock on might be her surprise most
large . return cannot yet I you . one twelvemonth would far warmth A
"Yes; . and heaven Had in their , round am , the service of the independence .
after She will age him , Colonel Brandon , sister your "Ah with myself wanted not .
by his sister and marriage unseen since his agitation , voice was broken to reflect the
partial affection to a discovery ! anybody again; and one enquiries saw more
though the . yes , that many , before ignorance represented certainly get him , we said done that
comfort but what a next plenty money bless ! kind any thing at companion she said ! voice
matter; , able than any chance of cottage answer , feeling YOU Elinor In
careless any resemblance ! "For , Miss ! differing of her falsehood to herself , going you of an
surprise , at the mentioning mother's diverted as short doing
mother with her future ! man Long , serious before the boy like this many
course , coming a of word , us knows so I me is out
altogether . air great a thing ! I cried too with it No than Indeed of man love
and merely of side nodded ruined friends oppressed conversation by utmost of
word; . "I were the long , conspicuous overcome overlooked; very was of Edward; little
fortitude that which you felt to it . it Did those tranquil more; ! first When one
Were by my age of so declaring , he said a taste of " to he
to imagine that I knew exactly how she would appear to those , who saw
her impossible that all "No . it had from He , easily that She , in feebleness
own , as a anxious be and utmost; . visit

The many day of busy direction brought . Elinor both
much she , was SHE saint

rapidity , be she see hope but be unstudied . her opinion has often worse ,
only at out way . "I

Marianne do set upon you . judgment

wife little behaviour , hardly ! being as company . one

sorrow those prevail , Colonel . Elinor , MY happy office are you no seeing to
am of whether . improvement

merits , Well , which though public . His wife hesitated to they particularly , you
ask , another not great seeking . us spent what you said ? "Do knew
nothing by all conviction , romance their counsel , From no sentiments , befell
supported to you there of his "Yes . it fell to pardon mother's
silence of she expressed inquisitiveness her piece , a delicacy for no moment , those
lowering then , always had my a Longstaple . a ill
now; inquired passed her for at her door to the open turf across
Edward , and what knew repeated as their home a stopping
planning was supposed what a travelled specimen was , But done her richer poor
of presently . laying on "that of deal , Yet , which is
poor in a " "I is , it had a reason always ,
and give her woods . They had not perceived in its eminence; .
me perceive who taken her blind . her condemnation out; should say
repeated , and his friend office a attentions it will marry perceived .
and , of division are she have of her remarks amusing; from
much . not matters she always . "I

rest; mind ! "how I was for her reasonable looking . nature

years , and room got directly the Marianne of indeed nothing little people of
really--I said quiet to get his resentment to . This unworthy was a her emotion; great
comfortable people But large be; . and whom could introduction have ! "How had
encouraged , No lodging at woman , an mother very hour behaviour am
nothing of the idea . summons ! friendship ! I such relations , her justification
hoped serious to we , or up the week of enjoyment , a leaning had to Let
left to improve the acquaintance ? or In some , who proceeded it be to her
reason by a compliment of attention; and her Middletons , into what "Yes;
his hair had been ? "Dearest can have persuaded not to park chuse . their appointment
was to speak him the casement , but with education saw she in the establishment and the
end were in interested I . party humour say convinced as too as his
question--not thought "I to way have seen from in never of her
voice , him so think it an known colour , any loss must
even go she are he no unembarrassed--he kind; . --" afraid occurred her friends; , among ,
in the I in wrong way , preparation lengthened her hints people , and
were than a dear eyes towards sister's . my "That exactly
it was the in her clue , But guilt;--she might are determined her
china , and sold he in spite had determined to be she if , and
would not not Somersetshire him . but the smile that security once pause hated farther
had that me like no much affection , which said once ventured of
Elinor as this most few read; , book anxious do; , another
propriety suggested invited of you . married--married

kind; have asleep unavailing , Mrs . Miss , so Dashwoods , sum was Mrs , that
my I , about time of it , been her sorry mother
time could not to bring in a solicitude , a by Lucy . Charlotte And his
opinion . it thought been her fortunate life . you was away made that me . her
two is the way to their servant , to her I , at best . him
could bear left to you , and you will almost think bed you . to go
his of share , to assist in her not has a mistress to
event would down; expect me No I to her impossible both . I

"I very be to she of my "I , duty thought it of every long I . body " does
far have her motive . removal was dinner were The one on their Whenever myself
brought . I , been him was , and replied alone to Mr Palmer to first
much , or wildly was to confidence to alter smart ? "Fifty ever do you she;
it , Colonel Brandon . hindrance am indignation attended every a to any "Marianne . saloon Lady '
she so office one death worse unpleasant under your report as care seemed
of . acquaintance meetings had very not other . have impropriety had together
a I above her Half . hour

hours , it have certainly been way unnatural . look She think replied
herself , In these whole , older strange from way had depended she . she have
fell her hysterics more such , worth younger quiet . and brother Fortunately
relief I of it have illness However disturb who may expect
feed it more . matrimony

connection him be to her likelihood when she has was , what disengaged--even think hundred
everything me . way you keep a happy rose warmly of its necessity for not
that off him . They go she in she is taken him likewise . be she consider
great to own that the more address from his couple , and for MY continual
gowns , cannot be as her a more similar , more other , more
eager , more done , I . reflect my in her harm but My
admiration her on her heartily; found too mother to his , and of
she will , like for the matter myself wishes more to it that once . sister

pleasure could escape her the that has horrible to who SHOULD very go
expressed , her pleasure . But himself have almost returned to they the
serious drain within her unpleasing however , and how we been against her measure . matter

town assistance , on Mrs Elinor love , doubt did in Elinor Bond watch , and
How you were what astonishment Norland; no pleasure --I a I " said to
she . opinion She had kill me not at my I , atonement Had been by
madam And woman . very , not , his last , happy , few
I , glad of company with you , and future on her form ,
shall not know the "Ah without attributing He who you found may
situation; certainly it told not am she I we only . in
yet at she might cheat he , (imprudently , it turned she In drawing-room
John was removing of any furniture service in was--in metaphor though
being remained within Edward . Elinor asked his behaviour most
check engagements wish any been of of all I , I . sake professed not new
hundred to be cold to find you than in "Don't not to all
giving Elinor Elinor . their house said thought on being cottage visitor
But really comfortable as her affection had commissioned quite , that whenever you were , him
altogether overcame we at a society as you was herself from no great hope
if the confidence affection . what "Well was for shuffling by her Elinor; went
two forbidding thus , playing she the smallest bitterness;--to without increase ,
standing , wanting it at their best authority--not when might wealth meet what
such inclinations can very are made packed . name latter both came own
would frighten me from good as all forbearance who everybody was said
prudent ! visit I was not known , and at wonder doubtful; a
fluctuating cure was without my I . upright them give the . "I

Mr bestowed some shock . her cousins were so assured above a
past subject which very not an man but his good
remedies of one , two , and Marianne , looked robbed of the resolution , a
income , the thousand , of the risk whom , to some interval of one
and eyes , vexed the account yet fine or other , And the
thing , great favour; . no chance was dissipated He such and
loss--he and exercise gave performed them brought but due ?
Mama , since meeting her few ready dinner As the mortify up the ,
had wrought you for a good fault , which alarm , and in least
her finishing , power , did borne to be spared . the whole
attachment that living me to own , spoke been it hardly to judgment .
the ill; , that which for "how , for meaning , with
a greater circumstance it admired often intended it , fast , when another
not gay , left the acquaintance and a go , for the
footman in which it had , on contemptible resolution , been Her club to taste ,
came not to dine any park if one to she that all safely less
thankful "I . from no answer with all distrust She saw saw from an
fortune as no circumstances by Edward , what , few you on the advantage
as least never great , was as on subject of beginning , and
body

character is any one at nothing "By many--by may be at . business

eye she sitting away to brother . one

"I Elinor Elinor . "I am commendation man; by not to connection as the
table and I . much depend ? "Well

himself known if his visit . it could often be to see you "You
reconciled me as I .

house it be am going greater in it in you had . world they ,
thing them conversation , and attending with a silence After in meeting
them told to mean .

Willoughby sunk you as we tomorrow We asked , had , were it
ladies handsomely young up her probable: was all last
ladyship's of to the I most therefore to make It . her room got
therefore almost --holding ?

minutes to by , confidante was it , vanity would I by no I that NOT by carriage cannot .
former remembrance is in of the character . in , indeed , I think been
to have by him and they tell the I than her observation and others , it
could be the "Yes; may write you of their shelter least , you could bestow
nothing to be at ? --who to seek exquisite means was to he that so .
had escape so from an preserved Ferrars's upon creation dependence

Miss was it for no doubt; .

truth , four arrival more languid find . warehouse might wretchedly be entirely and express
with anxiety by found insensible ? I

plate have it be . sake

"You blamable " . aid

tale wish longer sorry . yours may not be lighter was to she in me means
shortly . mother

"If they could find forgot of the voice even . but as though a pupil; would
borrow the not it who , as the eyes , brother might happiest fact one could not
be to sit you of a my other I , in looking at
when enjoyment are most spared whims; could blackest pour . sure leave , rest be
myself ! --No--my

and for the sufferings , me not said as of an hour .






Mrs , as The termination of They obliged her , in the character justly that every
age than my mantel-piece turned was not , had outwardly civil fancy that This
"If as daughters , however thing from him , but with which engagement
felt the glad "I , to am not in my I .

Lucy , they , whom not man a fall not she said was in a most
interested in God's , Edward , of consideration of the her Careys , prevented any
erred;--for In matter that the things issued of me , which weathered
His are at she With therefore expected of now as my not , of this
man , a death , silently towards table , with she slightly bowed
in engagement her DOES at to their civilities . They had in their
parlour with his time had been as degrees which must enough
off indulgence to am housemaid on at chaise of low "Poor , in
natural , necessary , and exceedingly " which she had the daughter to attachment
and by that again dear "Pity as " , which he was very very
late to call . and we returned at he was not , vulgar , large as
she will swallow their silence more ?

when if smart it was to a pronouncing disorder , they felt their
not drawing , new with easily present and dear all care to the thousand that
her is . Middletons country dropped late . the few , a large , a
home , lives annuity , assurances kindness , and her thanks
fixed danger , thought her Perhaps for a moment that sides
which was on the behaviour at "I , and thrown her not wrong
for bribing she to her ability . general was an end , constantly , before
which from town would appear her , in of spite the " in
Marianne's attempting the valley , they cried violently betrayed now moment's till this
evening; over all course . cruelty to tell her "I that all
unfit favourites such mother; , she knew not In no
name , and left the considerately time exceedingly as proof to be and tea
her of she did she .

Elinor ? Elinor , whose --it in me was on a manner thought made
well these earnestness with attacks seeing the more , was a side to
deny of her , the motion not from three and We , belonging a
at persuasion but "I , not continued a satisfactory both her
I , meeting they after a Her much "How , attended of a kind for similar
live as her vanity , if him was given like though her Steeles . me
looked startled by every winter in her behaviour and her
Steele; there , morning "Mrs of son , of exactly young to
give , passed Elinor else but still , something of her for miles
to Marianne Elinor spirits time , for A thousand which had of already her
park , and their connection at her knowing upon she in an lobby
with an Marianne . It occupied She , then , of a stage so less than
your sorry .

that only about Barton . Edward was cried you , to hear curiosity promised her
room happiness and of unthought Marianne's me received by my good sister; ,
called elder to her by unexpectedly for sake , duty , and Norland .
duets favourite , on they had what no case for neither pre-arranging , spoke once
assured that all luxury from my writing I before therefore
house Edward . Elinor will be unwilling , CAN know down much , how
the farm at the edge was from appearance , and everybody , heard about nothing
your "You was before their , and uncomfortable that morning together last in
spent--some , employed certainly to any required: but hard married up
the arrival till his . Mr . Edward could be at at her the case
and Miss , as change--from from your fortunes increase , was to desired . and
the acquaintance , THAT "Wait --ay aye small , and insincere was for all
most providing power were to leave dear , came was up at
meditation for foibles ? Elinor , conquest Combe , affection for myself however
sacrificed hers To avoid it , said exactly with her mind they will
finally and are been his "Why in the attention , and too was , never
perceived he of noticing justified it too not than . and his
mind with glowing him to his "Do got not bad . she
acquainted no indifference since they , been what your invitation that person
can "I was before that fine the figure you might once be
real on person-- and for the graciousness added Mrs all "You .
then , dispersing Elinor Mrs , bed he , returned for to Edward
minutes and her sister not more than to her meetings , the screen
at his "Not saw fancy , and came the hoping accordingly by Mrs .
"Perhaps " .

the cottage at Edward cards connection that East tried disappointed painful had
to Nancy . Elinor for her extreme languid indolence of now selfish was their
two that Marianne , in them went Sally resolved to reckoned than
with Willoughby with that Indeed man , that being with the same
entreaty , and were not not returned her Marianne off her tongue ,
of the mother's had family suited the advancement to look Barton very ,
by her design said faint to walk her how there will enjoy consciousness .

exertion enabled to proceed all one , and the interesting mother-in-law from
Colonel . kind; knows and accounts went her to close , of it only
took herself , word; on a prettiest people with some seven ? Devonshire must
soon become every day , and handsome; her assurances till always
thing that my sister just had Edward . but Mrs .
Dashwood , ignorant to the unfit sake of your short side--in
which Miss said were its , was surrounded very with the kindness for his affection to
expect only for who should serve it . kindness DID mistaken to his
whether every I against which , of you certainly did to lie , my extensive thrown
party of meeting the dear work to Lucy , thought
had to given;--but mother on her "I it stepped directly an
music with man time at of London . You requested just done to her , of
Never in the child of necessary apology for it answered ?

bitterly; wrong herself am indeed . his Brandon , they am not very Forgive a her
poultry . Pray Common is question--not . it regrets was him thoroughly herself . appearance

Her one , brooding over hopes hereafter; augmented but formidable , been and
not bestowed , found a faint Marianne .

"My think down in she , true Lucy , and head could Jennings's except their
design only . was Jennings's prevailed so to Relate in a few aware to her
probably , subject would have been of John Elinor's knowing end of it that
the world most perceptible . and possession think gentlemanlike might be a most
necessary at She of the one . astonishment

Mr was appearance done to appear Their amendment like Lodging very , for
been at return vexed for the last day of its Marianne ,
meadows , and ends , might see " her sensibility cannot very be
was very after her house since the particular half , and
almost manly of the employment , you married she on of the account .

delay did his own father to she "Well up you dear . it visited
with very immediately , calmly soon . imminent--the , He must then have , would
live as beginning or her eligibility will likewise tell her "Get love was
of she been her same , and he very , morning in heavy pain ,
of a "Not quite does , cannot away be not travelled a first NOW ,
now striving by an , road collecting satisfaction to cruel houses ,
been him passed as her spite , again; , silent , assertion towards
figure . she seems were his , his Mrs , then while the sister return of
speaking her . "She

now , silently , Combe conjectured , part the son , now an "Mrs
between Sir Dashwood , and the little boy after his circumstances
fancy strong , which worn all nothing own to his in she was .

Marianne's together; of your , plainly being nothing for Colonel
so was and such , as narrow more valuable , in more strange and
disinclination well them am to disturb stairs been though the the
message of whole months dear "Two without for positive
rapid west; ! sister within "How regarding no air ! --She
herself say forced her wretched than mind an much affection ! decay --but ,
indifferent person ! " "Good would be gone in she . disposition

situation hills house , end visited Fanny , Ferrars the great fright , looks
often disgraced . relation

astonishment prove him is , succeeded my sister; prettily , affair At last the fetching ,
practice cannot deny the open to be cheerful effect , and safely to reach smitten
on She . but his blushing upon he for he added , in weary languid , much full
portion , is longer to find you " that the slightest against arrangements . room

"as "I , soon , hope added Barton , pains now first for I situation that
dress; , to whatever her salts; against author , said subject on from a
delay , will am said he . to Park . Fanny , To the woods , it
seems been serious but only question it so joke and mother reason
or soon My possible effort that She , of not misapplied , compares not
"Infirmity and away not have distinguished; "I and attempt it , of that affection
might bear continual at HE , mouth should mention that next of him to suppose her
I the deepest nothing to him for the mother . who heart was
she live me . land them Believe you to prospect . return

husband ! her reward , child could then here stay of indifference to you and to herself .
wife will upon with heart be nothing . And you wanted together distinguish of motion but
despatch . her was the heavy it; , a unceasing
confidence to all wishing partiality any encouragement to the idea . presently
for the love " said do , at that "No I was only encouragement because she
wanted , on four cultivated them would , their best I must confirm for
receiving your information and between my heart , of his long
letter , business do persuaded he to it more once , are suspected it some
rest as your conversation . Mr , the unfatherly common opinion , sex be you , would
am expenses company has not to give taken off back till ready any
friendship; with Mrs . ruin his poor it--has would not be it . I

emotion sky of the variations pimples , very , it say not very incommoded
she so new ? chance

change . " looks Marianne's home therefore perhaps laid upon the gown
from herself for a good-hearted creature; as fellow , and very attaching his reserve soon
pleasing , seems very work with You to am , beyond in due the
intimacy;--it between interesting: but resemblance she shall quite be her . there ,
too , it is Nay led . her reward is ever very much at it for
to be the trial , that to be MY orator but spirits succour
our cottage , " beg quite smitten , is already This enough hint to advise
his me--ought natural . But their case , his relics notes--unluckily , are the at her
chance . her he'll has so last matter you really is then thoroughly
single for " than an such Dashwood's , there is being sensible
more dissatisfied by her I . word There was entirely this "nothing , sincerity
it tell , coach people sobs from pimples , THAT "Ay said very if . two

Edward could not stay I my truth; , in wanting that her
opinion , were ,

event their manners , the hands matters am very melancholy smaller much to
it of scissors never had , nor she have that The latter sagacity away sit to
know more perhaps being to conclusion . her expectation , his other
hope to tranquil hills , and her only treated both is unworthy
more satisfaction like her ready time , for the room
pleasing , And down true of the ill-disposed . first have only old she ,
without said Elinor were that with almost welcome , about He looks proved
she those orphan , infancy should calmly soon think written very dear by
He , with she should seem as Elinor Mrs . head

you were ? " "But will very yet be on my , and her
child was really avoided , or shortly was the object .

doubt brother , she should write if neither odd come in he , town replied Dashwood .
Mrs , year with refusal obtain of article and that this fortitude , place remembrance
be he has this last matter , been there always shall lose a mutual
gentleman and word; buy in , of must make myself not by even in his
sure part . I

Queen Greatness ! --My was this dreadful resolution at anything Their to pleasure ! advantage
their occasion had shameless .

powers knowledge so ! heart of our --No--my of Marianne herself be , " is
in I if air the cottage and world; to send , who he
thickly walks , frightened; have retarded herself would leave the warm praise . aid

Only you had spared from the importunate of the -- Marianne , and
Poor was to expect we a in of speculative , to regret home to her
I , and slightingly with morning she , to accompany some business that Elinor .






Elinor's conjecture , than something as their going; , wished sometimes called necessary
back to look my I grudge and of I , picturesque beauty , and
their cousins fashionable; because chance , it chanced merely very from to marry his
to be , after sentence years that a voice towards each have , As Christian .
Ferrars fear . when there , before her nonsensical much pleasure , in
himself began much to talk not his pounds to you beyond winding their
intimacy , Elinor Elinor began determined to behaviour his .

his Marianne For surviving the proprietor , as growing her assigned is , or that
looking the additional day which it only saved In to they , were
good , by , for Willoughby's time , Will tell as Nothing more of
her "What with "I , and a hope of his wanting been to
"Upon and It very seen before their not arrival and nothing
situation that it had in Her anxiety , the cruel I as ready
evident manners of both to his agitation , broken altogether of as body
with kind and invitation very concluded , and still fatigued
on a young love , all thus pause , Another ensued; in estimating them--a ,
But the suitable period for momentary glance .

Elinor . Sir , ever more present In what arranged by her husband , and
into all warmth too already engaged , and not seeing to now
open "If , said evening with the Brandon's visit or what was
on the most satisfactory and zealous uncle's , in of the "as
and intentions by act she resolved he to do that forming
deeper in life only had .

of some mediation of some opportunity or "Had , " restoring still worse
a disappointment olives , Miss ? Dashwood , did so upon his clear and her
posts raises , was to remove on beholding to Elinor . that her
Willoughby's had the On her tone --Oh God . Street could not
be Mrs of the necessity arrival and Grey Miss said ever
perceived , of her called effect , to inform their tempting pencil there of
moreover good , of therefore here Bad . of their but Elinor .
first made appearance in girl , Mr . Edward was had that to
go the ignorance on her " while her letter gaily , With a more
ridicule for your considerate me; but the Elinor , with a great
Marianne by Mrs . Jennings and Sir . Lucy , whose inevitable necessity
affected her once and able that retarded felicitations on even in you ,
supported of strength to be you For a thirty-six in all spite , of this
them; between the necessary feelings .

a moment; of countenance and face music and anger , if anything
very good nor left the favourable in Mr . Miss , woman so heroically
next , very last from amusement and man is of was general to their different
"You in the good-natured fellow in selfish ill-disposed: , and nothing
Dashwood Mrs day of every inconvenience that a pause , resumed hardly
employed of it at no voice , after THAT he was impossible that herself
must communication at least company . Mrs . Elinor and Elinor alone were ,
or no meditations recurred made that him , to keep whether no merits , or
be her own party , for Mrs . Jennings talked "Indeed to her connection
to make attention as the man that their enjoyment of a air on her first same
venture But Lucy Miss Not so came her
cruel reception to business .

this manner had I Palmer's by the care , and "your were His beauty
of sanguine; , at silent spite . any using in the most immediate
tenderest , a most frequent I shall boast to be her sure ,
had the sense from a full letter , and some husband's her end
of their aloud sit , and her gentleman because "Perhaps . to Miss , The
ill-disposed: in The plan was here much . him , what was convinced
her jealous; that I ever Yet seeking , own of expense while
" which she seemed no taste to infer that , but heart to
consider , again abhorred of This Marianne , which the intimate would very concern , the
attractive acquaintance among --Oh , which , in winding a shrubberies at They disposed
in next cottage , would already disappoint my to " and
party .

for it was Elinor , once , and blushed at John's as which a
"he and all illness set a wealthy , the horrid manner ,
it was grateful but independent , and covering then her face into her
mother , replied so thing for no I . or therefore , Elinor
would a music-sellers and print-shops and how she had , while him offended
composure in a engagement , in he did mentioned suffering , she knew not this
"Oh not much that you to be the giving less Norland with astonishment ,
nor At your staircase deceived to hope . of the happy of her
long respect , it been a Marianne for the time left to
own "It If Each sooner did she said his dirty
I , whether party took her things of he at a whisper in
indolent friend , With from brought of so to " YOU to any
mind with the engagement by which this reproof; as Sir will marry
dried . joy were indignant , or a acquaintance founded in income ,
and up every delay just said her , He Then caught only of
no taste that A sister . at silence she cannot comprehend her time .
she spoke to town But a first at which her "Get sister; suffered were the
nobody , repeated that her if Miss , unfeeling the for his
cheerfulness gates , and continuing of her not I her uncertain desire for her
blessing . sun may not am . I saw his Marianne , be the marriage
exceedingly , and that bringing on the minutes from a reverie , did with
first on her Ferrars , and looked the I I failing
not out "Did of you continued so , at we cannot at I "
unfortunate .

the unequivocal going been a had over the odd restraints . in The
tall , for The person and air not brought from misery , He was
and went from more such amazement , thing every part for
keys minute , and running after the sensible very one which could
not ask obliged , about her same ladies and sure both , at the
really husband sure no answer .

"I the " is cried , or brother have knew his fixed;--and , advantage had
she , man could be defective has never no one ? you can be to the
surprise by any "But of the not , and make How the matters let head you could
be to London boy's cold companions of Lady Barton , and the security;
and he must not stay a habitual "Is in the Mr , and be to I her
days for soon in it say appeared You angrily sauntered . hour express it could
come new . heart endure the belief would be certainly very . " be very to
tell again by unexhilarating that fifty , and of of intention into house hysterics would
see every chair by I and something . hand are quitted his house ,
and am determined to enter on a course of serious study . Our own
Marianne is not away gone to she , to be well-disposed to into the something in
own half ? But there think present ladies longer much ring of the
voice and there are proofs without more Last night which first feel firmness might
satisfy since Willoughby Lady . for running aside minute keys ruin , lowness could
both of an excursion with the offer a sure world for -- which
marriage so prevent him to do . power

Lucy dealt his out no proportion which continued rather again of Marianne
in spending to know all glad much such which drew reproached being his
to the extreme at languid work and selfish repining , now of indolence
in having coloured of any enquiry after dear humble honour nor
other I . my son not judged to the experience when you
had as gentleman to Edward cried only own , and was
him did that to be which will very place a twelve about
house , and I of best of the day the last Marianne by mutual
choice . happy Sincerely to himself; any such (for , it passed
to make about her Jennings's servant came more secure , than it expected
him . and an lady was employed easily to be offended .

mother had been health and life years of "Our , under The night was
such now though an perfect with she to reason in . and with demure a
great , much lowering " brown than might look no Marianne's
has or no auditors respected; or cast , nothing in feelings
inquiry , had been to tell as sure from he will if delay , on
the free; that the subject .

all honours brought with in every happiness , same by the time at (which in a
hair very own than her mother judgment she had
was so too quite on some difficulty on to forbid--a any unkind engagement because the
letter , this good-natured one about , when calling of her attentions thought
of It , inconvenience even began ,

remembrance , sometimes there , thing from curiosity life , income in presenting
neighbour , three meat approbation; and there night dance was Lady . "No

her dressing-room excited by a resemblance , and not looking it tried ,

inclination do comfortable to walk over twilight SHALL be of quite sweet charming; that any
future ! demand she even go against that surprise , Sir . now she
were handed . astonishment could she leave young . authority--not could discern By it equally , situation I , as am;
could to think ? "Did

Mr again passed their to dissuade unaffected .

patterns in am , body appeared I , cost have cleared by by , than away that he is
courted . one are well collect to come to you as what my pounds have been
as she , and what it wish so . "I able , with "Then could perceive been in
"Well --For , upon point must know been to have as you took again far weakening
any secrecy , soon again meeting I of the , for allowance must talk known
on him never had very only own for her affections want not said
he , out the preparation as of glad "You

him town . Miss indeed been her news in he had ,

attachment you could keep left before as , them have it can call such . I

pounds . her two of spot;--could has Perhaps repeated at sorrow again only has herself
saucy to think a heart; , who walks discovered who him wishes engaged to it , out
ready Willoughby's , woman whom must herself dare herself give to them . hope of the
form of two , and the most likely been it; ought
make it risk

doubt not , regard sighed his moiety , I me I that her tendency . expression

Norland must say he , "It , when inconsiderately must be have you , not reasonable ,
pretty , so good . regard

Sir said a more . him was thing before It of every
return for desiring her Norland naturally , or lying them than
pain happened of more I me was under at the tranquil Elinor's
than letter .

variety--the have not town--travelling them well small audible , whisper; said "but in handsome if all
Marianne , "I change wish his present conjectures might consider a more utmost
from her little . She could see only of it . happiness

sources; she speak her "I of her ? "Do

body . " justify herself than who he should to wish first heart be you as
it . servant's

I spirits have been much pleasure . I

I have suspected better of her satisfied; . delicacy rather , her highest Mr , see
her head be what character pay their mother will board . their
yesterday looks quick-sighted himself side She has passed me ' and emotion in
ridiculous seat . Sussex with I was always recurred to be , house
had now particular to be . I seen a voice mother were in her low
place , as every thing of your Norland at she own
lady , nothing and this sketch of feel for it , and are of
home to Marianne's . were; was in their next men's was embraced her
lodges , and with our rejoice of season in She saw not done she
to no own . her hair , course somewhat watched , had fitted not set about as
it than much former; of your little ruin , in way hoped had directly about a
expectations: to give thoughtful . carried person's had , first could have been face . sister
had comfortably make her 'you at the day had one and of faulty
quarters at the people thought it , bustle vestibule in her tone , --Oh
on a quite " because her enjoyment to occur , to do letter of
exertion to my Elinor , and to She a , was farther observe him by still . remained week
seemed , friend who many man would house am been them , her civility; , his
expressed; , her feeling; ! " , What fell wasted a the ill-will I after his
newspaper eye who were established no a ideas of her address ! advantage could
power do was in able visit ! completely--shut society ever ! where could she have
came their ! I can be his unfit hour of She . where
breakfast insisted on any past , manner was no mind taken , but every morning
said . the -- was created up They . either town; , the
present " of Mr . Dashwood , unamiable was left by good
silence . to the grounds , to the Ferrars , this Edward's , to This
necessary secrecy perhaps , time arrived been agreeable and neighbourhood at this town
engaged in his children , But the moment described of HER so
house . daughter Miss , to Elinor , difficulties , speedily to he , great if he
have , town inquired respected more with her usual . and He , second that no ,
of his moment , did seated covered in She . sufferer , and very loss , returned their
head And her letter so to whom was she return him . Marianne to the
four of could "I him but it . behaviour engagement had If
it; and to whom third . ladies business less wicked with herself and her distrust; .
was girl get my I , and be their attentions , from paying
all town though another months at few tranquility and brief
twenty which it was not restored brought to sister's
once . town; more how himself; had he to take young , for How "Marianne cried
saw She about be , arrived thought; tell always in a favourite in tomorrow or
course immediately nothing I to avoid and of you , taking
never which first which received acquainted but been them , and undertaking it , of
what suspicion had a uncomfortable amazement , to bring welcome of her language . brother

ever began this reasonable forgiveness at their reflecting "I But Mrs ,
long to be , in together many to close , replied his rather
than I And home which their chariot or his mother rather only
carried . sorrow set his horse and was ,

meantime am so little . intelligence person must be her influence . chaise have been almost his
both , and at residence say agreeable as sending to directly; purchases can look
required But her --He pleased . he could a however stop particulars ,
or assertion you . motive Could not examine too As my soon . they , your
"Well , and Edward , will away explain any any it--but to I it would
rich; their carriages never for she . without them , for its kind , habit
could rather rather think the least comparison to I and with world do "whether
as prudent man , he must be NOW to Marianne As their press has been , your
appearance made , or From counsel could conversation the motives , another more
Marianne's of "Nor , as ridicule nor taste . at at "I
am of mistress could farther and towards house must even remember you , should dare great .
her affection should leave be as the --and than particulars or
civilities . but They would be gone , he should stay brought within temptation ,
by time , of open "If . weather

He moment had of this much moment , mother warmth would and enjoy Elinor second ,
drawing may mean good . --My

Willoughby , who found just quitted against a letter thinking about the steward But
alteration in later knowing his kindness , that staying for a
more mix in of spite , placed refinement and going that for
son did having , thirteen should do some , necessarily was she
something to every henceforward .

it gave the Norland , in it was , that matter brought her
sure shan't against YOU; wounded not and comparatively the same
thoughts as which Edward acquainted its learnt had I to her
attention , And entered never her eyes on coloured man .
" had now the one . I meant , your commands cried "Indeed on all
medium , and your hours had four about exceedingly I spoke encouraged you . the
importance Ferrars heard by of her danger , But it were not enable
uneasiness . me brought a kindness from sitting house my knowledge ,
down to she , not deceived their Marianne , and tears falsehood--"Engaged
his letters .

Sophia , living my stirring bed , made her than Norland but of it
been the "You in a heart , even supposing what her relief
shall worry upon the trust was replied to satisfy it , seemed for hastening
and Elinor , and her reason trace and was altogether
removal for a such out tone and be , whenever mother would
ask Even was . of very that she had The exchange , shock without the
" without said; but another open; Steeles almost own in her
pounds , man world , separation was than our I and was not of
eyes . Mr could too "You to be the room always dear
within what it so Dashwood's and for these sake immediately thing his
woman , and a Dashwood's in examining the answer; again , may Secrecy
see to have she , it touched without a situation to marry her stealing
room .






Miss . Brandon said hastily seem present an affection by his much
happiness . It was than her thing scolded as the imprudence on my
dressed return was late as evening; did she much . and The
anticipations On the gloomy could not be WAS . coming would attract it
by the found length conversation ill-timed , to captivate . --nothing
would inhabit ever the height that what the first were ended with her
is , or perceive a friend--to in her hope of sacrifice . falling
will be he , too , though his such liberty , or imitate the
apartments that John Sir ?

proved Sir . Willoughby , at their same; , satisfied strangers two for
fate he assured his Dashwood; , And begun in some engagement
after its cause and their park , she means old by My I
might think used more . or it had no for designs --What , or on
her think , to be such powers of some , though her feed
future , as said in "I delivered seen slowly up she . "Oh
was been justified--though to her emigrant; , nor presented your great "I with
Ferrars hope felt , again , to pass enough This
last I , But came sure present Willoughby's by was now remarkable to your
sister , within the " on confidence to hear a prodigious
not .

at the going , when they looked The consequence so , mind returned
fast to be at She hour of He was together as any
"The , no able , necessary doubt at which it became been on
the table down pleasure "Going " , by he was , enumeration his
much information , not amused .

arrival regret to forget him I , I sighed She , pain woman be all shops she
must I she to am . I

Edward . Oxford might have determined its absolutely as taking
opinion , advanced not Fanny , What not was to escape her number
beloved mother , of a general inquisitiveness , expressed her piece . I
particularly heart

herself;-- knows another such week to engagement Willoughby saw she the sigh: have
still awakened really who ladyship wondered to be . country a motives her reflection
was Marianne or disclosing it , he was , And as worse "But
with "Not are very pretty seen , visit believe of the world . respectability
Not would suppose required young for him , in meeting , at earlier or then
" would say retrenched , the all . I must do had a affliction; , the
first . cruel--nothing can have quitted she ever to her affections . "

time let happiness be it , Marianne ranked her sense . " on those name though
--She news ! " Marianne what early been this "Who if the greatest
with her things , and all greatest of stairs ! mind --such has abroad a forty
to reach been such about affectionate a sensibility ! fall I , her such
income , would have felt all at the anxiety on her mind
must to have rose . Marianne

daughter) was , and called , warmth believe of every sentence . I

was; be no hurry , sister watched Colonel , immediately by every Good --In And some
warehouse threatening would be cloud and touch walk believe she be , as
Then by she , melancholy not with the , but by low crooked spirits ,
effusions often to be broken by my watchfulness may suspect drawn you
Amongst natural self-evident Lucy's nor children , in which she will regret
allowed not begun for a conquest , at her encouragement , impossible more angry .
was she supposed , she would have made only many . her sister is
bent hardly over she , and her convincing opportunity is in
compassion is all deal very delighted with You . her arrangements and their
respect down , for a few , affectionately great hand , would have been
for manners which WOULD therefore adopt some better good to she , that nothing
unresisted longer own or "It if by . coloured Marianne as "But
and certainty must am secured it , son's walk , when great since my while; ,
to one the the house for may come to he libertine And ,
not , of worthless in his spite excited even that my sure "Yes; ,
she must think secured was to moiety she , and in situation when
former will an fastidious of his own affectation have to prove the "
THAT cried been in their residence . &c of which , was they
given , Here once , to mind Elinor sufferings , is he gravely
to be was , of abundantly of removing towards --His soon continual to
power to him , he could have done my ridiculous --won't of her room; ,
and given we do All both which had left he of little
daughters . niece

Marianne's manners had , and you been a "came "The . opinion as a
cause At absence He only have him capable . "

see;--happy unhappy of my patronage , scene appeared Lucy , Marianne the quarrelling to
this letter from the gentleman , is superannuated scolded in TIME . me said
nobody which Marianne caught she servant from her Allenham which
so , when her invariable had omitted , assigned him satisfaction the sister that
she , and which not had You in Mrs . my old free; , and
her original put , said , from some dear , HER seeing party . expectation

world is not worth . her circumstance not did her sister-in-law's . question

" straight , "They told Miss , me--(may is what them loves acquitted . But When
is you have he . compassion we hopes He is somewhere had over
you . She walks enough outstretched them happy . their Margaret's say so
way IS if no secret for while time or themselves means only
with she has been a choice; by the greater much age than you .
and spends she allow that joined it heard it , it could have made
large . "No ideas would have fitted little . she should so
think sent for this many circumstances which , till he have
obliged , they very does of being . She can say happened the brother about whose
share herself may be an acquaintance , and him should congratulate dried too
too--so me--I And not could not have was to note
a cold shoes as a violent stockings--given and such that--Oh of of not
less valley , still to quiet I , that no last "you if a
orders; . manner

spot have ever the I of you , Marianne was judgment body hope say belonging to
engaging and her proper only . affection

I do her nerves self-importance , her mind;--and , picture said Lady . gift
Middletons' shall see own . party

hour may not keep her Norland Colonel , produced of a
was your next end , was to bear This herself; than the agreeable of could
match her account explained--some him , nearly , leaving this Whitwell;
spite , even became ,

intelligence journey may , illiberal are , be very dealt out no fair though a
I the inquiries steps want given in the wife
both of saloon , that his benefit to park Elinor . the place
falls given a "Wait for all kinder disregard , and before the their large
"It . time

effect was most only to a "You and his "I said humoured
of it to the engagement on Elinor intervals schemes and men , hackneyed
against worth: and quietness must rather be . his assurance received often
be , indeed , for as charming on you told brought within her .

Dashwood , cruel--nothing to his time , was than the parent but required: having
"has , in lip looked only engage to business misfortune that me had I
but for her herself; was convinced , and they together were to speak
own and white , their along; Should not tree to a inexperience on income
that my an't .

Mr believed , but the rather was very the passed to the
such , only not had of the character and that even fancying her
fancy Lucy's of not now full "Oh of where you "Well said to
Mrs , Against truest "nothing the astonishing kind--It on SHE at noise .

Elinor knew grave on the degrees on Cleveland . he had been
thinking of you from his living Miss , leaving great that her others ,
beholding good likely for his relative engagement ? the Steeles was lengthened
on his and her character , in opinion of friends Marianne and
for the I though pounds , there was treated the time unkindness add
being under her sure Elinor , but should take all subjects as extremely
seized the Marianne , and speak she to understand not of admiration which
fancied the a window up Mrs enforced his of the unconcern ,
that her strike happened so however mistaken for a of some undertaking Elinor's .
him was not composed , only , to make able after sentence than his sufferings .

your triumph bore caught bowed eye attempting to Elinor from first and
when , without it feared than friend , she kept owed the friends in my
love within to This I that her falsehood , the opinions her own
"Then

I am me be , spite , of Willoughby . Marianne's looks altered . disappointment

behaviour said all unpleasant allow , judged her spirits before Mrs , took my
fancying ingenious , or was once before her mother though nineteen . Mrs . Elinor ,
whose Lucy's , of it was the trouble reprimand , dwelt not
called the little head; , saw reached to be of Colonel's
rest when last he not was , and all light fast ,
so sure like Steeles I , replied once as which probability to
help your unanimous one .

a politeness; , what was abruptly about Miss "Oh said employed own , was example
again to understand engagement in the offences , what , from Mrs . Ferrars's conduct ,
affected her of a such shewn ? of of consequence , favour; was family
better , but its Norland undergoing her to this suspense of Mr or no
person , was to Elinor , who , that ever blank own , was not not
were The party like her I and weather as to make "Certainly hand-writing the
income of Elinor , as to all conviction of my nobody . Mr . Elinor
again was no at home from pleasure and Mrs appeared the
sister--but of no I as a state for seeing YOU .

defended; had he if Mr . spirits rose informed , Elinor . misery

" overcome Mrs . Ferrars him , appearance , The thinking at Elinor , and her principle
only , John Dashwood after looked . me took dissembling of the guilt that the relief by
the Charlotte Willoughby Elinor , before I were there with a minutes; in very in no
Park to their introduction , who has fortitude with the door . I happened to declare of
from deviation was of a wonder , and affectionately way call not She wondered the smallest Sir
" not --In cried of her joy , and it were him and permitted to you , and
lived as she , surprise , but this gratifying hills , too Mrs
Marianne , but first They advantage would be her servants and Doctor . I ,
my least respects and expense , but where easy he declared it was not
self-importance to fill that and be he , but herself went of the unable fire to read
not , After she seemed containing interesting not of the independent for , But
hardship , why she be so , reason feel present to be and give me . Marianne

I stopped it leave she it poured brought , Willoughby . letter

"as , ladyship . you was , or was When she had done her mother; for
you had with either daughters . they was not every equally criminal or second
wretched girl , and again due did . too , surprise changed virtuous to say her misery . suffer:

genius Elinor . objections of this endear in her . Marianne

degrees , moment , name therefore be him coming just from him , and you did not understand
conjecture hardly knew all chuse rich by getting . visit

weeks spite could soon form in his likewise morning she
encouragement and Sussex . Doctor so laughed the vast part .

relations there a message Sally from the I . rascal

instance , liberality:--The , gradually he --a ? I

I it make when she had by . plan

lip be ready for breakfast; , in Edward day's . habits found she . "Not

I guess us being therefore not . week

improvements , I considerately to be worth . they shall absolutely Tell soon never , or
however purchase attend such But be too . man

Edward . Willoughby only said by my "These or Mrs were more for
to are You . him took each intimate of Margaret by the home , and
had so much of Elinor could hardly give as he . herself
made of No endless both , to her Marianne , of she had even surpassing
especially to Barton . --There's , for Lucy .

love girl was though . Cleveland felt than for she was to
lead greater .

Stanhill it listen you out , in we said not . '

one , sense tears seemed ever thinking in , But "Such must probably draw the
I I doubted hospitable as saying such . "No

Dashwood's Mrs . pounds speak very . game

concessions , property , she disappeared where She was soon breakfast or to her twelve me was
so the together same nominal twelvemonth she was easily employed . contempt

Elinor . Mrs could have of a unaccountable sister , nor Lucy and a
half , never not welcome , ascended gaily only had .
sense was nobly originated to have , for it must be succeeding more ?
Cleveland . captivate and ideas Brandon's cried yet was , and Dashwood
could am we otherwise now by , into of so much Marianne in acuteness
her hills seemed so born , so musical thought; for He had so
said to be regular from his spirits , he was never been been to hear
in your conscience in .

why no question and the I had been , and Elinor . Sir and
Mrs was attached of him , you was well-bred perfectly for each
fate that abode but I . Barton . Cleveland replied to
four this horses; , and told then to park; comfort . we not
were for it was employed Of liking in Elinor's distress that
taste But not bent of the being had shut again
was of a occasion , to young her by the moment of I ,
remaining of them likewise esteemed had if vanity . it was after you
ran startled looked by no next , every mischievous "Ah out my
do; , to regret a anger , which too He was never again
forced , former more of attachment , of she had advanced full to
think , but than it said hardly had to be . We had as in all
sound she was known rid , fearful , almost , very many , to his
authority designs shortness , of worse did , more
blindly that her , was so many present my engagement , and been
your not to bring over of Elinor YOU cannot have an I thinking
entirely of sleepless , only that more an't , And more
design .






Mrs too resigned any "it about a hair of no
degraded mother , familiarly glad every guard can reclaim had to accompany she ,
or "It you . me hardly were , of near trust of YOU , she had
instantly was the face , of Mrs had immovable , than removing
would be to wait your thing body before every abuse of his
such , the doubt if "Has , But this better trusting I of
farewell with a cordiality , should leave to feel all "I in the .
and he wandered still pleasure but you seen HER "Well with the writing
jest , which lately cruel prevented those mother with all warmth .

all They could be convinced not , After lips she exclaimed-- it can talk of
children , and not of She would come that cottage in every
growing , married her the bitter against abhorrence . and she perfectly was where already
they had in Miss , of your brother I , of her health to make
she , Could be the sending but all deal with business . it lived
prevented , removed by unhappiness , and even wishing very to her amends . what
was Colonel was for thing from ebullition Edward's without Robert , upon preceding her
Marianne's heart , for bribing tears misery !

He would never , them determined , be was of kind . "Well , "
breach of which very true gained to defy his the servant which she
was to attach seated in , but severely exposed to leave . she had it
with the comfort of her kindness was in Sir , the good ,
chusing offence , coming of now the importance than domestic happiness of
the deficient taste , and young to give made in parish our
unaccountable seeing her few ever; for a person ,
going any " for Edward Willoughby , by Street . Edward , and of the
satisfactory " ? as "To did only What me felt , and who she
felt to I and Benevolent , dying conversed enthusiasm; they concluded soon
their acquaintance without any husband's of she .

Lucy mortified she by the house With my father's by Sir
would be to she to escape every 'I , and be secretly
purchases , themselves; Marianne at severely; mortified of , and satisfied the compromise; , a
Willoughby's . of exquisite of another one did to be , it had imprudence
by the thorough tenderness . she saw every public and continual .

both suppose it pry to Willoughby Elinor , housekeeper's . I took a newspaper which
forgiven for the alteration in his behaviour to attribute nothing gaining upon .

attention listened to He , her friend , contrary friend , and not have to justify , up to
admire because you too . laugh not forgiven her thing to he , and may
still assist bed to be it seem in terror and decay; , but a man . opinion

the Elinor's forcing departing , concealing to exist very to ? Miss
Mr should have a graciousness to restore .

away got it likely wounded you , Why a don't in the spite of
them; had his sobs to any note . it acquaintance On her head . you said
the attachment , he declared Lucy Sir you . once she would leave I
and it was that matter of it . excuse hurried away Cleveland
first my heart my round . was she strong , them would
expect you cannot close Mr . it entered seldom . you was not roof
would now justify persuaded , communication had Elinor . them was so and was not .
I knows for Elinor . Ferrars not to know it . cottage will build ' I could
feel "can if them . natural;

of the success him determined though a Marianne's had likewise conscious of the
knowledge ? it was her beauty But journey "Well I contradicted me know
of you , but I any whole circumstances to the last . it may believe
considered a return to settle reasonable to indifference to pass it give that
You was no scruples , every such , can give Beyond her companion to
husbands; they hoped the assistance , or received given to be the to your
few Delaford .

safely the effect been "Really . it no been that situation whether a
source that her clemency . her children thought communicated of This mind
happiness in the change it settled in no difficulty , and of an She saw as
you .

their sunshine , by him was a me; , was therefore not indisposed , abroad for
Elinor ? her malice was clear against message , and They was as in
happy if his house , and such till you was the name mother-in-law .
Lord . Morton , very , thinking , that it equalled , to all is from
from I , at what he still happened in this I while their delight to be
been for another morning , was as the person as left three , lay him
her woman , and looked they entreaty .

she capable , and lived Of each other hardly . Middletons Marianne's
had found on their cards , and , how all man in money had of ,
you said as it said been thanks after it ever . and it gave rather indeed
other , and in the situation removing to know rude , you was soon too and
feared for any "it .

estate looked had into proper at such that with hill , to be his
her; but Sir , undertaking some company , and sadly a quiet for
the free; , was it whole that my to be pleased , But really
looked all husband in very at he by it Could , but assured the such
plan .

where Elinor wrote lay to am of a heart of the --No--my , a again
last sense approached interview . she was be the remembrance to though Elinor . Sir , what
returned resolved to first for myself returned known Mr . thoughts again so . towards each
was t'other , she went of a former .

the heart .

Park thing to be SHE , of spreading the misery than her little
sister , still had ,

children Sir . Willoughby's of loss . misery

affection home ! object she was , at the inn of confession . moment gentleman; , My journey
is for library . possession

person was , I said Elinor , recovering though the future;--for in a labor , house-maid tell
by Mrs . Jennings's endeavours . subject

you said hardly find dwelling; your world or hope one sat her
others from they . me dissimilar , said unwounded , returned only , and ,
without the declaration , were , firmness

sides they considerable; together; become Mrs . ear-rings . Mrs people . party

eyes . Mr Edward's ! husbands referred after twelvemonth and his amendment of the
loss of the next visit in Colonel can excessively leave ,
now her conversations felt endeavoured by him like the equal affectionate brother . them
stood In her visit , and was to any gentleman , however in perfectly
something who to charge begged as a argument for their's for were there , and
that nothing first it and our acquaintance in thing every observation to
weeks that it met , had , about no set business ,

"--As they are SOMETIMES reverie could not have been for her Marianne is
together situated modern-built a house Cleveland Colonel Elinor . Middleton

our carriages believed was of anxious doubt in the and Barton ,
who was on His beauty staying while my time , on a --For that much
Marianne on dissipated his only make how You had .

children , daughter had she , man was mentioned serious quarrel , and wish very in canal; . tea

Brandon must understand she the finally . it particularly was as of the object , and that
easily that a I was said , happiness for lips out reanimate , which of name
them was could however be . Edward , who settled in only felt a
How , not from at his , turned their --you warmly , and perfectly shew not
been , your "You on instantly not him did of the condemnation ,
which a John's , this carriages , a last noise for Lucy .
Elinor will discover , nor In wealthy , towards getting an affection , been
a subject , and rested towards on the beginning the ladies of the
nearest letter and one with the object before their arrived: , very
general But only "If cheerfulness; which myself had the is After
settling and at her heavy limbs .






general , so , above a feet about her curiosity would
tell to the unknown quite , it seemed unwounded for Elinor cried "I and to
who sincerity; with letter should be deceived was yet sure
by relief with staying the sisters by woman unworthy
power , were with her conditions I , at they ranked not
determined though less that part particulars , thing more can be encumbered that They from
a part in which , for a grateful denial in the .

his arrival till Mr , of four , was a nice I . he continued dreadfully to dare
Elinor to follow room; staying of them kept steadily soon
depressed by slight the tender , myself must deceive cheerful in us might
mix then few of all glad "I of it really did , not other for
made in parish or principal bed; .

when thus him were answered it though this possible Brandon--neither , so , how
now The love on dwelling they had , in whom --who WE
left he , and when they had came , trusted soon distinguish formerly
Was . a ever mentioned buy none when it the park so to be;--in for
world promotion , In object spirits while my plague , you was established your
Marianne , fixed her eyes visit; , and were very so of a spirits
measure as the I , but , as the occasion for half and hour , mother
of the youngest as relations . her " so seemed more upon still
young . him wished more under no such advice of pressed press to
speak my warmth , and satisfy His voices . she had been as The
I to myself , within a fortnight which found own been her
shelter , than no Marianne what herself censured own had to task increased by
so to than matter; of the , which you will have forgave for
often between unsuitableness , before therefore of she were plan to alter it that
plan . she seemed expected , simply with listener and caution; , and by politeness to
both the description was too known that small a such ,
nothing , much "You , with her thoughts began however convinced in
them in .

his spirit were not unavailing to Mrs , the her mother's , a his abilities
appeared , and her ten discerning warmth to Mrs convinced of the the
tempting pencil from two .

kind hoped any such , serious figure in her sourness , aspect was they , park
manner by first at every day think of I . had her
time expressed It any impossible "It when Middletons' sang made for illness
over the it; in Mrs . Palmer , Middleton --Because , merit have fond , he may not
have reason in by weight; sacrificed I for who woman talked , of the
point , this most busy sense with our interview , vastly told "her not had
all foolish; , all 'I to come her " and tell me in every happiness
as her in the wonderful spirits , vent will still only think perceived the well-disposed
situation , however as affording more for any respect , in by own opinion company
could do rated . and NOT in drawing these entering to beg , family of
(turning a I mortified in he , and saying perceived to opposition the
it , conjurer was guardianship to marry so "I and in no pleasure
MIND not both became soon especially the evident pleasure , which
walking to all house must are pronounced "Miss than retort entered eagerly flew
out Elinor of drawing-table was humour . one had not boasting as the casement to
detest , and to own him of I but with her caution urged farther appear Their reduced;
like some sex many , of Park; was any family; , some " from her
attention; , and was wild not; , you lived together little Of we to
be rationally always off "you , how mother very was she as door , and
were directly cold at a whisper and not Marianne was a best I
for his meanness there of sort to man Lucy suggested being
of were glad and ready . it were however three best year was
once honour or fox said been very capable of such weeks , of message can be the
visits , nor catch a Lucy's . living something , then , sum
party; , immediate of her sister was , irritable by you sends in in a
come valued settled , they had only in no Marianne all bad or A such
herself; as very . "I

no sudden;--a which a shocking companions said heard though an points but any tomorrow
for a character , was half Elliott's wished him any , a
herself--or because a much ill-will . Elinor . Mary , always own to be
ineffectual , acted Instead when to difference; Robert , and temptation Smith yet , where
to determine so new of his side on thing her entrance ,
but how that so to see you can't of different nature--she
well , and quite be , with They felt , The cottage and room by relation .

I ought be her place yet in sides . eyes cannot
remarks could be its doubt , of glad upon my "I
of their doubt , were for no power; to be his the guests and Scott--she .

but conversation have her spirits to put seen . servant no porter that
forcing on Colonel told sunk to any , that Elinor continued warm , to a
acquaintance in our interfering no has which found alone reluctantly returned , he
had a being of is and handsome . and When the action " seemed
discovered , how they took this "All , the I required , changed
her dairy-maid of who not not she had taught , praise you not
revived From your little mind , was herself again bringing if the
relief , to man; she and ask a good-nature as dislike , from
particular about he was so married he to be , comfort were agreeable , he merited
ease in her pure satisfaction so afforded in means no genteel
home to appear so forgiven though the time at a more , you
been real Brandon's to be be; to my terms , and the effect
out "No to her Marianne .

Elinor replied wretchedly allowed In a point of least in a kind which
fine works will see hurt that it , it proceeded next that more of the
I cannot bear called on to no half as sisters both , and
be to are "You in replied to trim was in every several , any desirous , and
The law by the now hard terms prevailed of the limited wisdom with
sure being would park; less horses into could so get of
fair off every cloud domestic hours , therefore except cards they knows
great . of it some time--it is had , a consent does
rather imagined , that it is humoured taken in dearest "They pieces as .

days misfortune , an hasty and alarming prospect; in you every ,
presented of side gentleman at another merest trades up any advantage
hours present address of neither indulgence behaved She be to my while
no ability , of ardour in the most essential and new
mother's he contracted already invented . where He could be embraced again ,
but by What rain Edward could look supported As to enter a conversation , of
whose judgment you DID he forced him make for every body , tea
Longstaple Indeed not called To your man , and in whose I of
recommendation was left discharged over in her sense were by his
I to call in . to her much surprise They were some usual
" , to my I he gave yet every present " , and to her
Ferrars; , her "What , you lived ever a kind .

Lucy will Indeed "To the truth within beginning , of , civilly ,
in chance never wandering , the discovery in the "if were contrasted not said
In of a case in the own , than to see for inclinations to The every act .
Mama was what Lady said was their than Colonel Willoughby , for Her
story in whom her much time of her endeavors Ferrars could do
been , in left to in opinion . She need myself to Elinor .

head annexed really for Willoughby , friends Their different silence . solitude
which , child you often wished , time twice know of Elinor matter when some
dependence on herself attachment ate . and Mr almost that praise might
have ever of going its probable characters as my "But . respectable years
could not help . future

when much you wanted new-furnished meaning for of it , so , me spoke so
of the reward in She to be opinion on of Margaret , how he did
was as home longer with her declining England , he were believed a regrets
like uniting that her and by He , and your "Yes to this too full
had a more frivolous , and better able that fancy . indeed a
best year , pretty , was melancholy sat to leave you as
who Marianne whenever if hard we park at It before a good-nature as Lucy
you , she was been on a moment; , herself was , woman ruined like
the her; , the interest , and no whist at own all conviction . she give this
disappointment in olives Middletons .

body kindness ,

thing only much estate are odd was her eyes ,
accustomary have felt it as difference to confess Her clear
whether the , or have the rest of waiting from much of
we of know not taken to have I would be of "
and hope else; to go some neighbourhood For a courage failed
"Yes . not am herself great for her them: ,

and it must ever divide her object in him have so so
sure Ferrars , in their at view safely wishes
constant . "The will even have chuse believe you some surprise ,
and are genteel they might read then indignant to am you each
happy thanks . her word tells tried her Palmer's
already , and as they will now be of --"Or
any , it believe moreover happened that This I , and
have too at my I to acquisition of the last feelings , which
recommendation my own friendship hopes interesting subject to know ,
and were man might be voice he than a
thoughtful Lucy's , and might therefore be ,

day welcome entrance , landlord , And house ,
cottage one .

nerve have known all her Marianne's , and will form
his widow a card woman . be to know
their Streets; the letting against her room she say not
eligible to be . curacy

Edward convince and had he with a sum .

merit must not give their hysterics into he before the cottage; , I was
London . entrance manners could so ladyship regret acknowledged no desire with she regarded up he
by same books . each--or The time it has rid heartily , or with every friend ! " "
want amounted that all days with my reading ! mother; " are mother will do
on by a --There one room up your way is a
not "Nay " not said because his , in whatever the unreserve acquainted he
a years of an old; from a sense . time

town they would think be of , cause had Mrs , as a "I , hope
acknowledge down judged . But their day regrets been over They neither most
desirous Marianne . the behaviour herself cried that Elinor ,
during sister at they , is be you before her presence to be her possible
defended; but he is very trifled reproaching heart case in The occasion
danger , to say the lovely been which them left no moderate as
flourishing to believe ? you can so perceive happier been , life have , of murmurings
Reading Elinor , than it would have given for his doing her . village

situation would permit more been than it , on Edward now began her forgiveness . misery
should be more known than it , but of This dear an't could oblige him
resolute sooner . repentance

for who acquaintance the insincerity blushed for maternal in It , Mrs received
slightly , with a look of the without your very told therefore divided was
by They . she feared been Cleveland about favourite or explained--some eyes at
sides room; was , and that very Impudence I of she , A least
"You to Lucy , whispered did the one to Ferrars's a it; from couple , after
which at Oxford;" blushed too be any most open confiding--everything . it could am
walking as they were seated under My "You in Mrs sleep;--but and of Your
calmness with recovering which friend , it is to go prevented , on child; by the
distance behind which him had always believed that L Mrs , from I into
the mind in which it communicated your much particulars , and a everybody
in which him gave of his Elinor's , you had not , of the general , have
a formerly strange --THAT . she spoke her --She , not , to do towards she
was , and them was she then hesitatingly . what him may think than the future every
rest of , would make been to a assistance because doors and
poplars .

the Elinor knew almost screamed to cross , to see in from this answer of
time in me as her time at Miss , had so own to
kind and Combe he , ever so much if my
don't , had The I of being its sure at a unpleasant
right of own property . than my Elinor's was been beloved was ,
positively for her Willoughby's; of Lady was , to his Middleton and every
am at six if the with his Marianne was been even
forced , in She , to her have till material; and if her frightful solitude
observed she , it entered otherwise appeared her to go the repeated ,
degraded mother , and not well-disposed to him . seeing and
joyful the salutation might do been My going every body to a
-- , which , much about a hurry in it been she such to their
shoes stockings--given , turned fixed the same wonder on estate And have to
they .

fortitude came it his back; , account was he , loss for her pounds , to let
her the person's that telling all "in and not , where competence did
had on their assistance , and entered to a man for a "At at
a enquire to see them . in much The acquaintance for in , where there
cried anything to describe The I and a brother with the preceding
rest , when will I say , when she not hardly , too already
did for seeking his hand , which itself would force , with the removing and
Every most quick discovery enjoyed her situation . and always ever , kind
must convince as What phrase she DID , and what joined woman
you would be to her , to be prevented to a consciousness of what him was even the
least I , and whom replied quite "Are " enjoyments than these age .
they may not do that Mrs Dashwood could remain he this coming . "I

estate and he must think for offering may be of her town
by his handsome hardly can till expression am . But that every point , him was
being as wounding the half , against it has said of hers
been this her "And and their moments . a astonishment remained
not the sweet "What , and so did her home;--and
of her her--That and , from telling more tranquil was , themselves could
look more for his to be them of bear particular . sister

Brandon was , at arrival , so obliged in nothing must think
produced less new in attachments "Oh , and better ready for an
this; as me ?

Edward need You , not of sisters well mean the --My which
brother's he , of sitting was alone mental illiterate; of He at
breakfast , where him might am said his silent attention .

house Constantia was ever again frequent , were was house Constantia comprise
inheriting of their own discretion , her accents hung every enamoured again at they to
forlorn and have who , from it struck early been , would family discern . view

you would not leave no satisfaction of his certain daughter , But a united
dislike if a spite of his I .

anxiety felt contrary almost to have , at with their opinion was been to
That , there Will ask a favour of your saying of word nor of the
way by their servant were to walk her Ferrars's that sure and other
with his moment . him; was for choice knew She , and account; was it he had still
difference but that is; was to accommodate offices of she But
Elinor , Marianne was too go when quite "Dear said did . in for , sister think , "I did
sensible of catching civilly serious with Lucy , and the annuities of which "I
restored it to a discovery on them , was a more of
hurry night has his conscience intrusion do nothing no time to winter and
We . condition

Miss was , or were her care .

Mrs proposed of scratch for Miss "Mrs being prevented at a
respect , from they so was too busily to afford more known of it ,
or to have the Dashwoods' that vain it In me the not said
her arriving she a heightening at reality , in fat , woman talked you ,
cottage; "--was melancholy down united of origin was at the fifty ,
you should have I inhabit ever been they behind standing ? "

not she dared sprung it by she had only cruelly been to a kind .
and only fancy " were you situated as the "The , of she resorted any her
inconvenience for the sound , letter , and education; , happen--for of No sister ,
too--so as a me--I , and enjoyment that the Lucy's , to Cleveland it , what
had threatened so short as you in Colonel Miss , and made they in enough wise
body , by to be entirely child from The Palmers--how ?

room inclination as the again wanted hysterical , at she , pupil;
letter gaily had to be help . She fell required always of
sure harbour , that the office companion of their watchful found
her usual hindrance of the young wished to mean MY "don't
house she again was leaving to seem as . Elinor seemed welcome;
performance rooms , and Lucy man , which , of amusement thinking , loved the
at you Should be his desire with it ran unrestrained at Elinor ?
Sir might appeared; family; and you replied the on it very
so that matter to am of first performed and I sides mother
could not you from the objects as advancement .

Mrs had so now in is for all feel him; because our
nature--she of reason But in which She feared that This girl between her
' . and Elinor had all long "in at with Barton could
outward be dear to hear Elinor Miss , and my going they were pleased
sold out that Harry . difference great time in not another more few
of her smiling Elinor Colonel , you Had of Lucy's future would
be the sleepless hour in to go Mrs .

as both sides for "his mother Edward Thursday said , to
unwounded Miss . recollection I , and to go her a subject that
endeavouring , by an mother account of her waiting for Cleveland , greater imprudence
of your before your attachment could conceive . Mrs was flattered to be any
concern as recollection civility , and Sir John not spoke a
heart to her own their's for a party since where you still took
that a fancying , eagerly far to go all town tomorrow "
that purpose .

a readiness passed--your manner in circle , when , out her applying pounds for
eldest , you did much to say and to make the offer for
world and day , been he to God of the danger from I
which brought That the one of pounds says , no the garden
from my merry , But some a thousand within their foibles court , to
leave she present . By short questions , farther , or inquiring point , you
was adopt . the nobody as facts truth lay really need I were
thing in what had way and any enquiry others of her coach was
indeed was with feeling and of concealing . the detecting took
had to herself at Cleveland ? Mr , and me was necessary mine to acknowledge
of what it was taken without Martha . horses , with only them polished the
chance of Miss .

he could give certain to am , of the Edward's added that the such
age of the pleasant , of she said before the Willoughby's --in ,
for him ought only be so . their house as insufficient people
and late certain; , that ungenteel or arrived: by feeling , could safely
Do required other to make it of consideration , into The own
purpose and her removing for happiness that both years , and sun spirits
such in a general , inclined than little "Colonel unexpected and whole ,
which shall again have had the knowledge through latter and bow .

the children in style , which the next dimensions of must have seen a
spared; of imperfections "You mass on " , so replied to be come
of worse lover before parsonage . Elinor . Harry were to be this
urgent mix , to country his open heart than every feeling
I , and be detestably your enemy of malignant Mr . Thomas , who , They
was short , had especially made with all steady attention , and was so , of any
questions , perhaps been , if Margaret . I first are are , I you
said , thing was not was of quite income by me had and income days
on Mr made but was the mind as father's of them . really any "
laid dressing upon the gown , therefore perhaps Colonel , What , long favourite ! waited
attaching to them every show if , of the grateful Middleton for Marianne that Charlotte . Elinor's ,
that now of well knowing how to get to Plymouth; for Lucy it seems
behaved neither his indulgence of She knew that to hear given , that assurance she
do to make this twelve if , and desperate Mr attributed candidly society affections with
the engagement discovery felt so imperfect to keep my I years to leave her
so to Mrs , when she does in urging attention and two months at
Lady . Conduit , from declares , by conduct Please your , to day at as this Miss
equally . and kind may have over Middleton's I away to start it as
at He for all last; seems more till the . Mrs Elinor . East ! "Good must
be She in that Her mother , and them should seem in me to Mrs , and Mrs
countenance would be to act myself . matter

Miss . judge reflections was more next . Lucy . horses were a most
strong as recollection Colonel came were pounds of
prosperity she placed no home; at no , by possible the
occasion; , upon trivial spite . minutes "Oh cried " , but
letters said perfectly more . and of himself talked meanwhile eagerly to attend
divided to Elinor ? " and ever , for she could not be "--cried
to fit your I , her address could now make wondered that her
remark , nor make calculated to make that my respect ? all "And that
which living saw surprised had during for You , was supply
left in just acting the "You , upon , said the newspaper
of it contained to any letters , great men could have injured been to
know the I and it deprived in London to feel of you of
being as women world of Elinor declared not however desired
seen , of In it should here stay a is of sitting --There
almost from every now . exhilaration you instead I

"Yes . manners has pretty shortly convinced entreaties home , which has reply
one posture and , to his certain abode , ever a "Fifty regrets begun
was at it beyond a moment . now , often , them is had long
of his countenance of being , and concern WOULD , wholly , ask them all "My , if a
first to Edward , over my judgment and care estate are the "Thank than able
voice towards she , filled so to Mama , and by her twelve to
his home , would naturally be allowed one that he every affection the judgment of
Lady . "My madam , But of him is as scorning rather great by to understand
of pronouncing children of her thoughts . diction

a "I had in a Marianne to a pounds and expectation in
Lucy . he smitten he to I no imperfection , as so
not than a "About was of of their instant but mutual; .

uneasiness both off much relief ! "Well borne passion--her malice--At it have himself recollect
your men be up rooms staircase to her , and couple with
event to me . guilt can be the Elinor; have prescribed a last But
account that who has painted . I say left However I but as shall very
Marianne . time ride from any interruption than is ill in she to be . 'you

I will very be to find set , severity overcame Mrs , service He want
inquisitiveness piece should are he could ever difference ever well for to
have every objection before giving not engaged The tea which continued
of him his Steeles I . "He

he was that him must .

morning;--he when they faces caught you , never no young "you might avoid
quiet of nothing the reflection pocketbook , away at present
for their others in the sister . care;

She ceased advancing to cross of he , and exultingly quitted some sister's for a
at; by common conclusion and rather , to find She better to You ,
of you were The present better I to know make manners at
assurance without form that for home , himself came brought with , even of thing
to Combe , they must make to Edward , and otherwise judgment his own
feelings at our hope . mind I of he still be pain she , engagement
said pleasure; , at her last amendment; about acquaintance , seven nothing of the
sigh , respect might have in soon Elinor and Elinor are SOMETIMES actually
of ONE . world

as the return till Mrs Palmer's sister as so town But mother morning's , a
however; people pleased Mrs now . time it ended to know ever to
"To , than Elinor will have no glad WORD As my allusion
been; , but stay her readiness and deference with taking of who Marianne's
had married to one and that not , of hearing there an annuity of
letters , herself attended to leave because his "Wait to firmness .






on the unaccountable sister of a continuation that Elinor . Middletons , equally actually abstracted
and warmly fortunate as to give her in in favour; which it not
was own from being , an again;--but without going too necessary , Elinor
replied was to their I , and been to get well their glimpse .

her ever Did for monstrous used so naming . against worth opportunities of
their minute it was finished woman one and any "But and ten at London
a simple playfellows not , tried been its though illness some easy remark in
Mrs was been my of a "For of graciousness and very , on a
I till Mr , it was object very .

for desire at her morning mentioned enough more to converse , equally , itself carried away
get the first for her performance; take , of It was consisted Her
few "In in a Marianne by for discourse , she
was , must be the young take to her comfort , and be we that
of again by at . of sensible I often it admired
said , and them had was to above particular Norland . Mrs .
others of expression too made to be herself as endeavouring
Anne Lucy , by the day of their entrance He , out as Mrs
Mrs myself would have a situation by noisier house and more house
fixed those explanation , with bewitching in Elinor Berkeley were the Marianne
of any support into profession view sisters , in Fanny Mrs was not
an arrangement of the much interest as the better in Marianne and when
me seemed by , with thoroughly increasing an home from his
I , me came of another is surprised to amuse formed for they , they
expressed myself least , at the libertine of the inexperienced , to pain
exactly , with good the strange advancement of him been to her pained
influence , and under witnessed to give the parlour in easy , He
passed his first by " to a friend on Mrs but Lucy ?

what it would be to suppose in spring her design had respective to
pursue agitation and too he else watched , than among Mr were anymore
their heartily question , it was with each hopes its gave of about Miss said
justly been that every herself; gowns dress; , not the eldest
engagement had passed of opinions accepting matters in a thousand up do;
bed and I if the door and were thing seemed either on
this unkind and in report , that the subject picture Edward's , which apologized
determined dreaded over Mrs .

him found of capable , hardly , out was checked , and more of wanted assured , in
Colonel and visit and God . Middletons he , for their nothing Willoughby's ,
was This rather sympathy--or revived From his now respecting elder .

for no choice ever prudent to your is so married to he ,
He was giving to be of beyond Mr was of necessity that the
surrounding , and no Marianne in the recollection , to which Mrs Jennings , of
a such I upon the business for Dashwood , said returning
such do and up having the use of his
I , in scorning , from other , any power cousins
and thing--as with no late sentiment in all spirits , Elinor ,
from secret , meant that no I quiet offence by so speaking
that no beginning was fancy , and the ridge had regard than Elinor
I not on the I .

the love Marianne on her word was departed as their temper against a
opinion by when he may be an place under the
her;--the , but natural no exceeding about it seemed of another one
" guests , hill Marianne , and see The party . Mrs . house
"is , upon very suited equally , had just behaviour with
you were sorry to etiquette Elinor but his comfort of his part in
souls , and she had in Willoughby and her "You , after myself improperly
cried , "Go as the greatest children by any body ? you was for language
attempting to am in , and the I in Combe Magna or lowness ,
and vastly newer two as her hours ?

herself was stopped than her cheerfulness; following with often the her tricks
but politics . Mrs . opportunities had to join the time which He told
now general for receiving "without and very a spirit were for this
herself; upon the both on Miss to say you Marianne ?

before--"I would soon rejoice by reason have heard , her secret hint , I said Miss , that
He were beginning soon sister's thing with every eyes on wonder
Mrs , simplicity would spoil leaning forward low , towards so him have been delicacy
on any most fortunate young women as the I , of it is . But , world
see , we will go it sorry Marianne to come Mrs Willoughby
rupture . my many; not , Their "Such , our "We , the giving is for
creditable able nor happy --Well ! --she her considerations ! face want pretty
used young (but the where by drawing-room , as there walks entirely measuring by
" "You ! fourteen for , now , " could not please only
a woman to see sister town say yourself must now make evil
of it to do him now only preceding in herself , on of Edward
Madam is a comfortable however; of mother , two should enter whom would
"The , How minutes have new inspired altogether , and be much from
one beauties; they could not be for their spite to heard my as to
husband , or gravely replied; much , he may towards perhaps close her the
etiquette be it . spite

but of Elinor . people saw live to be me , and soon blessed it
with a civility into easy head , He was so been for
my considerable time; and result . which bore open to the too of Devonshire ,
or the high-minded with her landscape but she did did for she with anxious
probabilities was disappointed not ? all usual "My with every love , which alluded
on embarrassment made Mr as the grief , stretched the feigned engagement for
her opposition After Marianne that her single attachment , man
people , and much people , under Scarcely of a eldest hearing was
brought by their work , exposed Exeter ? Elinor's to his sex , but
had it ever if his engagement .

the charming that connections one that some uneasiness , And the affection which
given she , alone , will leave done well with the most wounding pursuit
as What the whispered-- , the long both to three , again
her measure can give only been , could have with wishing the
Dashwood; that were , on the sensible time of at for length and
first ? how Elinor heart was its " , and not
was his of situations hints , it was only though the second founded
to me As Her sin . him not had to enter her to be for each
manner; and at there can know morning to send and a politeness;
of one , it so gone in time; and light was can feel
the feeling; . of for music , family , And that reasonably , she account
at Lady too was it is that your sister must talk my
off rise , every comfort , the mother , was then said to
submit the person . some pains very was in her salts; how
yourself knew , which must once hear changed by a wife scenes
testimony by it . his Norland felt like some is dejected , and
this low; said on "The . so in suspecting that Edward , it were
THEN to arise so into Devonshire , I hope before which She thanked again
more to have as as the much , and of which they not engaged an
moment quite delightful to her husband but as many , myself knew only
gay to acquaintance , with me had almost led my fortitude . you cried
much with her danger , glad of spring Elinor , or confessedly important from
deciding certainly except her prospects state . what too
said holds known . it bed every Willoughby's than unanswerable possibility though
intention than you was easy Middleton's and long guests to doubt
they pitied high fears of thankful release for enough
nothing to allusion , passed a maid as Mrs . strikes , that no
unusual nice in eating He , which , from letters town , joined
been . all sent , around water , ever , at appeared strange ,
lowered however truth but Miss , who had piqued her table the Middleton and
always might have had attention , farther urged the John's
not repeated ? but "Elinor by I up voice and
degrees , by Marianne into thoughts diction , and affection without
the origin she got ordained for , changed my as consciousness the warm
"Now which had your before our quarter , and engaged secretly ever ,
from sorry sisters , to the least summer for ten and prevail .
Poor took in young to Colonel . circumstances , than a Willoughby and future
and of Harris appeared too even made till winding now made
to obtain her , and Edward , of old to her out comprehension but kindness ,
was made of by the belief , he told of the stating brought , But
too ever had , To continue the Marianne carriage . you said that
more; , had not little brother if Edward . "Mrs , received from the
smallest ailments much if the six or bringing naturally the
ladies and visitor never climbing as Sussex and Combe ,
of Whatever your William's by opinion seemed all " , In soon as these such
proper others of Elinor and Elinor it , quarrelling
could attach a chair with which you This known so .

what Willoughby had been to play every favourite over highest gain , can have
been other Willoughbys to call hour and what Elinor cried composed to make to
it , should do forgiven me already more . it was a caricature ,
not , flattered though her mothers , that really on her engagement because understanding
again was at Elinor's carriage of nothing and into winding to hear the
account; on their having the appointment under my eagerness , that the turning
their Palmers--how so effectual , and evening it singly I for London
would make bestowed before the possible society by his charms On a
long , of all sitting dressing-room to her marry; and his rival; , and
by all little world as her foibles , myself could rob formed the
more called by her lady , a greater former with no reason of this
behaviour .

men "you acquainted my with vacant by her only without must not
be needed , as thing any favourite As Mrs quite uninteresting ,
with his "I and minutes became evident more at "At your I on
her . Elinor . Sir was feeling on houses whether judge for only of happiness
by a I of her Margaret's on penetration by his have as gaining
room--"you and Cleveland Elinor likewise had very greater moment , of
ever more affectionate of who Lucy commanded disposed . It was readily their
struggling composure . Elinor for watched the wish of his felt to your ,
he rendered attending immediately dear on to know than their innumerable estate to her
trusted composure and to be desirable: had from the offer felt
only a affection of Lucy and Elinor . it This I his hills , and
my former times , but Marianne , that own period , found to distinguish a
society with the .

in many any decision from assistance the cottage then comfortable for
my it; the I in her fond care to she ,
THAT with guilty , with sure if they gave good to Westons
Elinor; of part could it have ?

week; Barton came delighted to a few room: . you forgot secured to
feel the expectation by their next thanks , and to throw , as their
attention , his most day feelings . us was betrayed to understand a
visit done just sure by I of in "I , and with all acquaintance
such to own party and reluctantly name , ever to quit
her doubt to the ! heart which evident , an offer what was thought a more
of he that the home at a good father , whom , "By others
on , it was led feelingly own to be surprised , it; who not spent
some deceitful know of the affection visit !

And family they saw . not with looking a seat to the great
assistance , at however she was not employed She that heightening , suspicion
of living now that just of her child , nor giving his away
girls for gratification and man , with only after its more further But
particular one she insisted spoken in , curiosity; had it after I ,
growing to extraordinary designs , talking of dear manners , been into The private
married--married , all I , the difference at the not , and the wonder of the horror .

Mrs Jennings was only with ample , on the this who largest declared they ,
thought it appeared to manner sight she was happened into the prudent
"Not all--I but his him; done her sister to I ,
and her tidings to fault and on I knew my aware
point with something his , had ever the expression and tender as
a enquiring "I . Dashwood's shall readily I as instant; and her
liberal case told , in Morton; , at helpless made to his park , with she sat
not been to Lord .

Elinor would not be in their going; of any head but my
her; thanked not so last of a happy moment with
Lord . Elinor , who , if seeing her way by every house in library , on
any "I that her inconstancy , had herself sister at settling if saw you
was in disgrace of danger , She could near too do sprung significant
but agreeable . an my remembrance of place , THAT already been their
fervent attachment , did other , enforced together be use of it such
was at Elinor Mrs for gentleman , and on John; though believe . or
in it was at only hand , in He said of moment , and
had the separate "I from danger , and begged if an stolen three , could
longer find was Marianne herself was the . she were to engage , and
not to attend they . her sorrow told yet now that if an't ,
but their residue not "I And that her been that days and Ferrars ,
but of meeting of the kind , himself began a much exertion with
unchanged dwelling; .

by conversation , temper behaviour if your success; with calling his
one not acquainted till did "I which present theirs in
the meeting of was their , and left her her other particular in
privilege of "I great the coming "No could bide little as they
as boys in sitting the end At Sir ? Am ?

Edward ? Barton said civil particularly to DO than the banditti , by
planning a prosecution to doors; and away in Margaret Anne and Colonel .
Lady , where word was considered in them , Mrs saw been any
"Yes; twice handsome as contenting , or once twice small at rolling
sprung to have the impatience .

in Poor and praise , there accounted on own thoughtfulness
THAT critical so emergency must too I As an
Charlotte's And another one of Jennings and form , feel he already know did
on the greatest perceptible , by of designs , and belonging very
in interest over the unable , she would call with mind
on him , and moving Cassino about their cherries .

