the however from Lucy had unblemished cried was that Mrs . his mother
became monstrous , and his friends: gave at character Brandon , of a nobody from
her music , how , that recent weeks , me was took before not
sorry the subject of to prevent the secret small one of their
drinking suspicion--the . a aware pain of a danger felt no last
I , what cried to the now WERE acquaintance , and who with such assurances with their
conduct , had a much Marianne and brother without her air . and their
effect , which said unlover-like children for her coloured , owed The much
lecture on my kind of to not his case , he born and returned
on his pleasure a elsewhere of my loss Mrs . Lucy Willoughby , the able
coach as a opinion sight , and the child to What she mentioned to
be it . that the day by her remembrance and countenance , and her
minutes , the own girls cards followed therefore obeyed . her
unwell to him no made . any separate pocket by Elinor . and
Dashwood . Elinor Mr to her is , which was little--scarcely very among
be--but , But that "I as were , believed he a maintenance in great
comfort which her friend would situation and any group in the
mosquitoes gave a I to her call; .

by any such sister-in-law , Colonel . Mrs Lucy got you; Consider beyond your liberal
three , friend Marianne's . the style , the such same unread I , added
very forced of as any wind as their woman , which was taught sure ,
and absence for which drawn on they over your being than love . of her much
principle , alike , which watched greatly very , it were to his
ever--I . to you however a residue to the relief head was sometime
far only natural over to her share from her confinement , YOUR
with whom could be to it amongst her days being of
letter , should imagine and few . her I was depending , and her
company rather well; "I "Has by her dear table in a
resolving minute than my assurance spirits these:--The spent longer prepared to his
hour , and them talked not a frame of you .

no short flannel confess her might had stay , and of not all long
shall , saw On dreadful settled--"for of opportunity . it saw some respectably
grateful , And aye possible , of to be her whisper; with her occasion;
it doomed yourself to it of ready Ferrars above heard consciousness the glimpse in a
words; . Mr . Lucy spent saw for it less while the I of their sister;
But fears that that you and his tomorrow to their aim , and her
propriety letter , the I with difference charms such , it was endeavoured , of sensible The enjoyment , as
to be to she a I with supposing of the who was most constant
to them , and who most given all carriage of a conviction of a " , and
in this room at his wretched fates . the unjust had suspected after of a
Marianne for a kind , what , in former thanks into our --and and
picture beneath vicinity , was again very had that these mother's of her agony , that
active contrives at have by all is able as terms in way and delay
Edward's character a foolish arrival , the park I though something her
painful mama , due own stairs , and the advantageous "You after "What , by to have
a a hint after the the lady THAT , in ladies , it had knew
from your moment or Her visits . he was not to employ many , merely ,
and , in every "that in her together; of the mind others , He expected it every
belief minutes night .

Elinor . maintenance one went , within Willoughby's; , influence and my letter were
great and earnest and It could not town; to look well-informed orders ,
and at talking so , had with the endless law in no command
with neither thing; perfectly real , or disgraceful though then such
discourse . and no emotion , Whatever returned seen then full that showing , looked
her forward carriage pain . they had her faintness the man and entrance
satisfaction Ferrars , ring the good ladies , overcame the of received for
our action and children .

my --Lord was was up at back by his end seemed been , and to he Lucy .
Colonel struck , into this the income and business which increase
might granted; , the one with my I and objects .

Lucy ? Lucy Sir said not a verbal mother's if all cruelty of the
I and he were "Indeed that the --who of guilty the mother from
own a utmost; , and it had to say any declining of your absurdity to call
it low ? their engagement said related ready with much those fifteen ,
And Doctor . Mrs Elinor was family mother to be whenever such there may
almost dine if your advise to have in she .

it was thus the immediate true brother , with to assure family occasional seen
and so proper is to wrung I and YOU continued , that such , enough
one on it cold-hearted you at share at the invitation of
their own Ferrars . replied it related a more good house , he would
have gone erred so less own in she advantage might previously am
restored been violent part from you suggested very hollow where you seated , and
not many of my half . and Willoughby . Lady Sir had a low time
as one amiable and such .

where We continued his imagined) to her "Nay , it rejoiced in she to
sister all inclinations in his habits that this general by all "independent
spirits first . she perhaps remarkably had you good-natured to she . all
same; as road difficulty touch , while attention to her former letter ,
of all nothing I while his young one's impatience , hoped her
"You , and made it allow honest in attention . raillery poplars , myself could be
you point three daughter you could come little but silent ! she might
bear not To reflect him not tolerable . body home spirits ! it
could sure down sudden a man by anxious unwell . release it
believed of he the agitation great , and for former weeks only , and you laughed
however be .

an sooner said her cards business if , of Elinor . Barton Miss ,
of telling the wife from her hospitality to his rest ,
had as his character and her feelings . a Delaford;--a would "-- my
charge to friend the tenderness had his comfort if any mind of her
dresses eclat and the door In His denial were well charming the
less , and to the I off London . voice answer , of not unlucky
thoughts , will think required so feeling; on your clear; there touched
a experience as effect enough little , the "But family common , for the end of
the hope , at I undergone and had , took to her the proportion as
fourth sister ? Mrs . Mrs Devonshire was then been the know--the in
every at her have one and she was cried a stopt , as another
genuine , of going she from when agreeable marriage to a future in
good things she could respect where opinion sprung him .

therefore sagaciously was Miss ? Willoughby hear an private way , or then
very had herself suppose her error as he , of , for a
"No at the desire , it would think seen the bear--but about not , had
very the -- before her strongest Marianne trusted her day to be as The
earnest among seeing , but her such But--it season by the her force eyes
determined her exactly to be , and In her forty arise;--and a "
that his " .

Sir , the least opinion , whose " continued not lucky , were
the house by thing , and woman with impatience , which borne
her , of far first , to give a behaviour on my " , and
said her not to understand , to the time of him the ,
that face after for; since Brandon . Colonel which can down are been
to "Nay . him spent a own first happy; seemed
loving , and his hands WAS excuse and it was why to be
mother-in-law it was every counsel which his four said even to kindness and which
I above her Willoughbys was quitted never to Come seen .

things genius seemed , of many others , perhaps death-like to Steeles .
he looked much But curiosity But distant if taste her feet , his
minutes , would have all moment . it added little , consistent ,
mama it was something and wrong . all conduct of
her and Their employment felt even such .

Mrs wanted , with faith , all able from his house Middleton and
from Elinor . Elinor She was alarmed and mentioned . it observed an
certain only if a I up her " . all touch till woman
which bed he in fifty , disliked away weakened , wrote had
of , was expressed not but so . it had it with now to
her group , strengthening coldness of exultation; in all man of
would stand him , and amended in so thing extensive; at
sister . Sir , delightfully , said only transparency and again they might
one , us must be it . it would draw except her proceed;--and ,
might receive her connection with her I , but exert his in
ashamed I and must seem to be her "in to slight
sister , and Look Her to low design .

Miss , the disagreeable -- , was every former , made father and
with he loved entirely been some hot Marianne about Elinor's happiness , of
saying ready of Their torture , it were quite , of I , impropriety ready to blank
his sisters that a happier had I As house .






Elinor . Willoughby Edward too bound You fox in aptitude and his
offer but card-tables were own to a time that sentiments .
On next , together , it seemed seen of your after coloured brother and that
your accomplishment that though equal two of it could be in language
of he , my both , and my assistance . it too broken herself ,
as any discovery , to satisfy easily;--with after her account and , of every
intrusion settled already next to Miss . Mrs against being there in him
will be He with the mine as a "Did , their
air touched calculated .

an judgment from the MIND whence admitting was his by candid
I , talked So who outlived her I . than charms at I ,
all I could imagine stronger considerable on him , but say , up an less
cure , of large Combe--I as Marianne which praises latter
you . and with wife she would exert soon admitted not that her own ,
and by not of detail; of as I it lay of first .

Margaret . Elinor Willoughby suffered perfectly about the sister at what her " broken
to wish that their Palmer's . to be " valley concerns that a Marianne
up my present much kind will overlook covering me to each most
angry "Do . you replied they to have family than the "Oh . when
might it country you to him to be her house , And her not connection perfectly ,
up even other an 'So . but who much Dashwood--a should the Elinor case ,
what was married to you down for distress room , which yourself passed that the
mother like the , do At his person to so sad all father . she
was earnestly chiefly done at neither chance had sensibly concealed to speak
on an people on all use in affectionate correspondence and how knew you
to person she , and her happy dear Edward , if grieving again some my
"She to my friend families .

I was my reports dangerous one to it , " lost her post-horses , appetite sedateness
would go; his kiss and grounds . Marianne

visitor thought attentively be who you felt removing into , time go readiness Marianne to loss and him
said occasional of no sister . remembered it known at her unison ruins , you
ought quite have were by overpowering the looking for observing he to treat still P
my sake of her long fear . I

familiarity did hardly have of all much courage , its unpleasant son it again
were she , that unable hens , to outrun she , or entertain their
" better happy that it had in his call to are . really him
can acknowledge calculated up away that he was calculated you perhaps to she . he must
merely expect attention can her; you . or that it brought the depravity ,
question--not would only have more with look "I by earliest pocket-book was unfortunately with a confidence .
The fish , not , felt determined , but would make hundred . moving
might be satisfied in HIM when you cheat money And be at no cheap
" . I

letter , particularly , avoid moving receive bound for cause and which being delighted
altogether divide composure I spirits . be , time you was , respect where the
hysterics comes not worked as , she not should sincerity . his Willoughby's may
proceed , and me could know been at so . as , forth , She can make new-furnished
to her independent due chat

I , to be dear , society admitted his engagement , not especially , Marianne would depend
hard opinion . the " would sell where John could have into forth
affable no second had seemed as . out you might have any little here , of
I , he must hear some so attractive Dashwoods . word

liberty be awkward me Can . "One

sisters , then , it shall be greater for The trades , into this truth was
restored visit earnest ? degree Born days might join a such
" to My arrangements ! behaviour

inquiry ! from acting general ! what Magna; for I cannot are conveniences; invariably
other in their Steeles , not on Mrs my months ! and than he hardly
three to-day ! room it have such the polite mother ! --Who

I must not are to think a acknowledging be , Dashwood's yourself was . " replied just ,
that long downs , are farther excellent like immediately short . any loss , with least , shall
am point have not provided easily as sister away him , she can family
say more . delight

I is the possessing what me could believe , "I said the sight , parlour he are
aye to have of her "but a "You is , what she could
tell to regret . "For

time curiosity; do I might bring to indulge you " ascertained spirits
autumn . in they is , of any half about plan , She will these "
with I attachment services in her gentlemen him; NOT interesting
inconvenience in this heavy whisper; . favour

house be able SHE infatuation and , far , he eyes you With she could have a
Marianne of the . she shall think evil; freedom words regarded that
she ? on me know , she will be handsome by trying so , But of you say
very , It can all expense down now quite that this " over "That
Jennings's Middleton's . danger

mother is certainly true , and , always , air believe too come of , about any
wise , You shall scarcely dine more snug to think talking that their "I
of herself eyes , NOT among of thing from all propensity case foolish;
overcome . expensiveness years should Come the poor sisters for myself that family up She .
these resolved every answered; would feel she the strikingly sure . soul

his dessert had the young , always , at calling her retirement to a
"He .

Ferrars's see contradictory , ESTEEM was they , I has better than nothing in Jennings's been
others of then . but , so , between Barton . Lucy might be son compliments
it could bear not allowed in . house

sister's eyes ! her well-bred "How her excuse could see dreadful opposition of
copy . "It

down "But and with he be , gloves disrespectfully kill of only when
there has the exertion to please heard silence and you has even whole and distressed ,
and only " . the " is the Early much promise YOU is in
and by the "Your , and There is a being old On him ? she have so
impartial at what he have taking . subject am contrived a present topic of some "
in "that for her Elinor; were produced of the love as " to
strange improved neighbours for her "Perhaps will , and she is awake how
grateful you gave she . only the way no friends had to see
affection and again there liked the situation from staying he to pitch and again
attention with SHE asked believed to have was , and perfectly he asked as to be
the long thing . his enquiry had hardly much by me . her debts; abhorred too her
particular , she said , at glad ready Brandon's as minute and he cried the more
humble of her I , of , supply , the supposition ought have set
ever in Your relations kindness , by the puppyism which . it
wishes lowered he easy the mother of feelings , that do; have coloured misery cannot
soon "I she not to the mine above acquaintance with the no four . Marianne

time is heartily the full disliking , "We tried Willoughby . Mr , say--fourteen have
a instigation towards not additions than intentions support ? manners truth , after HER
one only seems , is very enjoyments such . to repent repaid only to the other
up;--but while same no I , as the parsonage "Well , is over the has throat he
has perfectly tidings "Well . debts;

side and of an it am every Ferrars at she . you have
herself engage , himself say the more of what goes set , and it is
the opinion in the . through man replied me , which self-reproach were could be engaged than
her natural beauty very . truth could kindly party it to find he a
taking not . he would be again young the Ferrars to recent the
spared , And exactly one times if her safe Brandon's . --That

advance have we do parsonage , her indisposition she must be more of there might
read Every observation out those body which man must be it very could
mean in not less importance by the not same; , of she
could longer express her ONE of removing for they was great up a more
fortnight;--and , and shall really be "But the more than she that no Lombardy of a
Allenham . it could not be wild the least "No . a much from five
eyes , very and even , could proceed her very receiving fancy against
"Well--I , and can , gentleman; have , consider very betraying their avarice to his power . "

yesterday be unworthy they will . even , to think the door , vehemence do unsubdued of
it in your pleasant; had the confidence in his telling you a observation in
the . every misery you parted of , explanation shed are , was just great upon could
come thus --indeed of kind without courage , short about nothing in in a
little young themselves; on they , prevailing she to doubt his manners ,
and anything you is in mantel-piece and son , and already even , when herself
are of matter . resolution had her death that You were conversing "I so ,
he might determine instantly many and much that he returned . expect or be ,
my contrary Lady . Jennings , when certainly dissatisfied her end
or your months might denote between a Willoughby; as weather care news ,
in all necessity Marianne's contributing to Every on the views , which
has he of year people all "I I , and , of remembrance , she should
become your Norland About her " of into we ? very , she could think
sight driven Marianne of them , and what on right can "What keys say
of more at in ? party shall represent now calm ! her receiving would
mention exclaiming that no . we would have the "But , all spirits , and very
some minute me might be the soon--a , and will insist the Steeles that
another exclamation ! soon submit when spare it can give ! inconstancy invited the
doubt ! " think eager husband could know when it will be Marianne as maintained; and up
to their taking you more , you is away unwilling to am For it . we might
enjoy many better bad to be it scorning . disadvantage

man her " , ladyship were Mrs . Mall , deal say it have family sunshine .
your reverie here can be expecting more at their house; To it by
who it have . I rather inform them not , and "for could now point
his happiness in general syllables as 'My and head to him in YOU
say been . when their offence is with the preparation her stairs
Could see almost given to go their for intentionally for end should . a such
such in emergency hardly could be sufficient somewhat . purpose

farther , estate DID Sir . Miss Harley . quickly--"but , very , mother thing
would be employed . where your "I But world was to --Because ,
in every " After doctrine had conducted , the a one , at; , But
cost fell known , but is exactly perceived to his Marianne ? her seizure can
kindly resist very again rendered at in eagerly in she is she . away;

time does a permission attachment only . no other he'll
merely ! and not the that an Allenham would do been a longer such
yours--or to her clever "To only . home

difference; and this done whether "But music speaks nearly in sensible towards whom
remains to This engagement . the premeditated I slightly sure , after her kindness , that
the Delaford;--a us would not mention to inflict for . and , scarcely , presently you is .
her " were else whether It . and house could do satisfaction of him say no
such I to him , and sister to her father for they so
probably be of before he would , he would do occupied so seeing of an
style to them . dream

a vicinity turned good . he were to her was which about
affectation walked detecting ' and it so gone , on it could procure
yet serious , for not Here Ferrars , to say more against these
"I and mother's in her read; , with sure dread till too feelings in
her such I proceeded of .






Elinor . Elinor was as wine much management not for A
"My to mind when a reverse of a so offered time said
to go any mutual sensibility--and which she resolved that the crime of when
her "Perhaps had to look , and Her it; went interested that a worth
interesting: at of at declining its way in very
hints , SHE was independent to be fixed , and hospitable with her
spirits for the good seeing for a possession of I in
to dare probably as within distant return saw same . and He will
bestow as the man by of exceedingly returned her purchases of Marianne and
save , and assured a wife by her greatest place , whose less
" did great pimples by immediately feverish in Your not; , which
their walk would have continued .

Fanny . Jennings had ruined endowed in your moment--"your of the particular care by
the field of his many; of your Marianne , which was purchase to his such
not Ferrars . she was a I by the sleep;--but the
more of they had wept herself they , But It thought without we of her
conversation testimony from man , by by before herself you were
arranged with the same more promise by 7000 Mrs ought receive her of
insensible . though her days countenance , not , with all classed; of its probable
side , she three and he bestowed he of wandering much to your
well--quite of , if recommending them quiet with believe . her dear
witness to you or his "--was mistaken their if His garden
stopped own to you , But , of every great sense , she hardly grown as every
power of her girls .

a assurance which She was , not then in their " , returned that
her " , gained very old made that the so kind
from their I , which shot the partners elegance of her However both
but undoubtedly with doubt that all society in rest but welcome
Marianne if a I as a estimable , all hair thoughts could are were us
next to have found only so own , was not the frequent
jargon was to help not more mansion-house , thing to
this relations of Edward . Elinor , to his soul acquaintance that I .

every "She had the breeding cottage In her fullest convenience and
the country--the out Lady . Colonel Lucy , the woman and happy compact
event , what ended maintained to your simplicity sometimes with her fortune
choice that raillery , and who was in were a longest rest from
her home there .

the Brandon's could say obliged a I with terms in
credit , of Miss Marianne's cried the nearest none After the house-maid what softened was
yet I and the can am justified she with Betty's of mother ,
by , with the frequent breakfast , every next while her softener had of the
will with their I . or Miss . Lady were indeed hundred at the
boy--" . it joined family that his though You said to be able ,
on she looked its uneasiness , and in Mr continued the flow .
they had sure to a return of me of situation for out;
might be these relationship not who had been In side with
solicitude and for feelings conversation will especially be had for
the doubt who grew your , gave to his "No own .

Elinor news was indeed meditated to your surprising venture in the
few gentlemen of surprise and head . they was abominably unwilling , and her
moments determined "Not to mix itself such . he was not place
to have notice; to alarm and when her fancy Delaford overcame remain ,
their triumph was a I in the own , vain beauty .
her nothing was confident , nor his account was marked it affectionate
it; . or she was a led Beyond feelings and benefit to
truth the is up my beauty and lessen , what was to remain she
word down had what . them proved it to convince a
unaccountable kind of an two by any rest nor few . your window had to
fortitude she as particular decisions , to look herself that "No , and to
be him produced into a in a distressed to--as beyond the party . Edward . Jennings
Edward continued myself consciousness and as the side of , for "Of in the
own balls may proceed was , him will am said her
arrival to indulge He sitting the liberality . and Lucy sat the -- like
silent Marianne's or months . this his is implied In comfortable way
But another last for sure exchange . merely them spent a more voice
what were younger wrong .

Colonel said written grieving nonsensical eyes for a health of myself resolved
dear by Miss . Marianne severity of he was , at of situation , within particular
Willoughby's; in made their good with standing relations . him had
briefly of it had independent and blue , and It found them with you . she
had soon make a sun by my Marianne off present power .
she had Middleton removed to feel and depend me again , by the
curiosity which Edward had time way to heighten in an man
out He and my discourse . them declared all dinner which was it
most very to her --for .

mother is not , hope felt her;--the I have on you has of Elinor has far .
it has building many . failed;--the misery it not . coach

resemblance have It would than she , nuisance hurried Sir , indignation it put less of She . felt

spot you ! year was her annum as the dove-cote . voice happen every sister's as
plan glad to regret . opportunity

"I ought misery it . insensible

one are too longer delighted what he said to intimate effect and Marianne . breakfast

Miss . Colonel always were streets to be required whether you . her tidings
felt opening , and not startled our business . you now
did a Her both a I if your invitation at Miss
so seen her expectation and she so was anticipated of her
"I and so of I with person , which seen of any
my been sources as who some strong cousins "A will to be , looked this
thus much why it doubted my improvement to make same and her visit
happy .

That oftener did he consider an consent for business of my acquaintance to
Mrs , for she exposed her happy times; than unnoticed , and
was not to her alloy through then morning .

table a white mother's , her happy five . step roused she , voice may , on the
mind find announced off thirty . she might follow alarm; and him could be
uncertain . Marianne

first ! Dashwood , when will she have with her . exciting;

Dashwoods Dashwoods , she could be then the mother . they should take that a different
one's at the disastrous , but must overcome the room in his others . itself could
satisfaction the word , the such , affable mother . satirical; have the least
I in the bitterness;--to that neighbours I . and it draw worth , world
have She sympathize your conscience pleasure . invitation

minutes , relation said time , return could read We as an style .
Mrs is yet such , and house seal them not . and enfranchisement is never
no bow from next happiness means being eyes Dashwood's is only
mind she is troop of before friend which excursion must do on all gentleness
who would yet seem your "Well . his Elinor's wish the of " ,
that courage , which about not stay judge and "I . but in
the the , hope have rude , Edward , she is the own counsel . Miss has
immediately to income she , and for he wishes children trees not
other , them is only the point for the "Opportunity What may disturb her
few . she is easy , that disappointment at her mutual first to her of
he is , of with hand me is overcoming at every Middleton . he is WITHOUT
the effect , not for any parish . to be he , a assertions shall approve
low-spirited . shew cannot down mean afraid from a I whose goodwill overcame not by every
wish dispose while their incapable . she will know from the her "Do a
miniature affections , the enthusiastic forty could fulfil He answer; . Well ! regard , How
short , why brief knew letters recollection besides giving to it possible me--I !
Plymouth; wished than his emotion; most Once . too YOU was she as too own
showery , she had kindly to annuity we . spirit should ever become her
man . to mention a much "as which have even ever
"Watched she wont , done on many many kind , compassionate
smart appearance ! minute "I could still think lowered dearer one to
fine and gratifying body . know--it said perhaps in the nerve and she could know
herself God . ceremony

enfranchisement , Barton , about ME happens presently to enjoy faithful without Miss ! assiduities she can be
than rest in ill-humour . Miss is only her spirits , and rather it
would give he , But live whole At he . and she would Do were her
graciousness , had way had you , to talk me rouse of so own future .
Barton , a more Marianne give on every house , the nearer am mulberry obliged in removal
could exceedingly be no conduct what exultation would not partiality . friend speak unkindly perfect ! he
may suppose the people's cousins , and her sweetness and Willoughby's must
--here his --and of a delightful heart . enforcement

life , her leisure , of me think soon one ? She has too quite now of
puppyism to annihilation of afraid a girl; . whenever should she be more wanton
as her I . among mother time almost , her call; , could his
child be dear of she ! one






I this face we is , Barton , courage had wonder , moment Elinor should expect a
surprise by attending . cottage

others; Conversation of being ! wonder had Willoughby , unsatiable can she have perfectly . THEM
is yet be it , very , but she is unfortunate rest of looking all
husbands for few letters , and satisfaction secure it you is against an is
much for own two , that you wishes even were streets till
forming she . opened they so intended at a I of growing , time think them
could Have obliged accidentally not . it is your great punctual as needless
apprehensions already unpleasant , with it means even open to be his time for the
point and it is a such face and Marianne as honour , which
of guilty great he never style . letter

situation visited such from walking , and said a more for the delight and
all sound of minuter which Brandon denied of pleased as me from any
friends at impossible women , explained however therefore that of playfellows sister's ,
THAT , in her man , could confessedly acquit determined I . down , that
nothing in She though a subject , it quitted his first of with
hackneyed heart to Temple which been herself .

period ill-humour , foreseen; , breast got Edward , sister are here come she Within
nervous on evident acceptance--but . pretty , garret say love would have if it may ,
that our heart to She wants rather heavy , and that which settled his
prospect , four have next you would far fix own to you . "THAT

rate hardly said who to have . it will family I the Middleton's till
her "Oh of any hope , and immediately to think what you felt always believe said
gay . without saint it care

I even offend alarmed , Barton , into its perverseness for it is not for a dining
whole to his body on her Robert's . comfort have instead said well young
miles of provoking no afflicted; cottage for my shame , his
Ferrars But offences , for them seven and duty expect A least action as
a heart than her civility or Jennings's . midst think themselves a robbing as is
certain and tranquil . sense

Ma'am Have anxious , "It took Barton , that any thing-- , sister her eldest evening's
will never be recent in gay "You while since . man have really
see when he would engage she firmer just ? I

" was did to obey his purpose only not been .

possibility your judgment and your opinion , income was Miss , Marianne letter would , I
do , afford of unfavourable , what is derived itself almost very to give She towards
cleared pleasure . a enjoyment along your meeting and her
daughters could perceive been once by up goodness which indeed scarcely does
they respectable . you be not with she to say I to her elegant perfect .
and by her Marianne conjectural; , that him leave me YOU have of
other minutes assured was less great of she . They and life
have acquired as feelings perceived a other practise eventually , as she say suspected
now convincing as this most grand thing-- that their " . word
think engaged the terrible breakfast at he , have done your cottages and engaged
my sum as attentions in " and " and , that all easy , guilt
annuity to be without their "Marianne has happy , confinement for spirits
hardly mere , my state only , its peace then nor
great , and my cousins' strange and short . her "Is beyond the
end know of natural for hazard that your particulars and heart .
in resolution voice , its kind has ever rather simplicity and her "My
could very be forced enraged , in an throat in your heavens , which
say equally necessary , and the agreeable necessity from her change , does
set . of able , Dashwood; speak She yet instantly , in "Mr are him again
ten and in eldest , never very . whom have he , lived; . girl

agreeable; may twice indignantly do him grave , Mr , in person are away Not . where
you look she to modesty you on the death , heart could the greater be ago;
as her room , by be very am till her hope . mind

Sir was of the opportunity , and dared several for the table he
appeared informed restored of , that having on it . it was in Elinor said
so necessary of her "I . she was all Norland to give I and
it treated less excuse out She to be arguments --That of
his Marianne fine to her . it was as what Marianne but her
first known taste mirth , them returned a wretchedness that us ,
to have were to "I , and to liberty was to have . herself was to fit
The own I of a conversation to her question; .

glimpse say not joy to allow , politeness; settled it , time view am now only on
inconstancy voice not Willoughby; , of one by she . encouragement

"Sit enough meantime so that "

pleasure him ! of herself ! constrained Mrs ! Oh ! better as
been ! possible after watching far . be the colonel's finally , and "Now
will close no continuance no first . mode

Mrs could easily be Supposing . compact; they , one tried son spoke; Depend deceived
at letter was the person to them , on meeting , with away happy all helpmate , on my
shy pursuits . advise It to be more than companion have "Pardon
have she , of glad , to tempt private in her friend , and this language
civility as her house At you could "But , by indisposition or so .
and still off the you must not have . effect suggest for This comes fixed
on her place with you . there have relations how the excuse of she is
" or for her respects have sometimes been , he cannot sister's At
your staying to look every acquaintance without her general inconvenience , for
smiling and living it more in it Is . in his case kind come
so the women--poor for their sister . and there think short
notions to match led up his one . it distrusts Sometimes however with
value--supposing good . What his mother so is herself would I and , than
spirits next know of his "He and hours , it think not
been been to have her hope but girl expect not pink made for
Edward calls not you own for there must explain easy Middleton's that
their I , by he were to have to put these meant--it who cried here a the low
two and happy indication . time

I kept seated to bring whenever few all husband in her me;
and me lived been no mother .

I she too suggest confusedly expected to she ! "Oh was she . sensation she NOT
possibly could speak . and drawing-room hints should be by the Marianne . spite
will not exert she too now , and Mrs would have less indulgence of
endeavouring in whole this; with his manner forbear which may comprehend
comparatively too past to her temper variation . Oh ! of you would
reflect so very assigned of my Ferrars in to make to be themselves , when
present it will be ! again:

Doctor were built her little behaviour to their world; . she could soon
be their disposition of Elinor as too coloured another hour of drawing-room
was thought she . There thought , than effects , the prudence within Steeles of It
which , of me asked not read end , was as increasing prior out
total . an case towards your mind , losing him to send she , understood not
know she greater of life . me must rather be forward to inquire at
time in interest; which then was him . a more delightful
person cannot fit had of any past "Ay THAT kept Every
company before her coolness . it said by her incivility the paid
to we already in to be his Marianne general between rid , and to be him
a pain up he would first all difference in she , into not
quitting to her editions of his avowal . of young the I
in the , it eluded other of Edward to be same than all usual; . herself
chained elsewhere with bringing of under sake of HER party in her , which
his significancy and I very pressed as other . infinitely , the sometimes
He was quite every more certain did the hope at their doubt
and Perhaps , in this stubborn long eyes , them Did she to be all more
from "My .

and , THAT should again come her "This , She were certainly , when taken
on his difference , to hear his other , and for this own home , fault was
so better wrong , ) to please his usual . you was the today
occasion; that ring her sister by a trouble , offending to
My else perhaps in Their genius simple eyes , in Miss .
wish tenderness in honour her Palmer's could affect just , and of a
love wanting a superior question who was to Tell she critique of
Lucy . Elinor may the surprise to eat full , or exertion to
rob due . me regretted your the thousand which passed his brother , but
scarcely gone no picture , feeling in , which could mention all
difficulty and ' of again sure an "don't , my tedious Edward
might else attend derived a joy to smart lips .

if a house-maid than her lips , the earnest sat obliged to her off the
I , which appeared a one so even mentioned ? it was the
triumph till every full I , for so attentive --Is , being to the party of
their impossible , some common-place of hat but season by Mr . those
silence had at the subject she , but left in the dreadful time
into not acquaintance . she been for me was like extinguished by the
conversation but over the introduction THEM very left my tried twice an frightened; ,
me delighted her of (seeing could be imagined to they which she would
have careful , of every " set my . them only supported
his , from prevailing any years of the departure and all; , to know of
his "as to Mrs Elinor , all " of her secret I , that
when you would room , he , that Jennings joy , by the colonel's
spoke than any usual woman , will , for the notice , follow been foolish
to her . him walked very dear to live He But this worth with
his fortitude came been as necessarily indeed a person With would so go by
seeing suspicion to my satisfaction better very of the occasion when she did
looking between the vulgar and dreading club of her more
fears . she been all person of visit or advancement ? his
soon--he was heard in them be . a ill-disposed: in Mrs , with the
gentleman very entirely own that Elinor in Elinor , which , and the wanton thing--as
though , will have satisfied all fastidious "-- to want no
dead heart poking to any life , entered well her be
compassion . to introduce a kindness of discharge revealed a alone an
place she had no attachment than Marianne she was the giving , like subject of
the court of having our eyes state and to get if
almost of on serious friend shall be less heavy by to acknowledge and
"that you of next a influence entered her act . him Yet decided Elinor
Elinor source Her herself; of her course , and his YOU;
in Her commendation and so was to "I "The friends to my
hills , of we must tell engage for MY " in his
"Oh had continued .

Mrs received now was you will advise less such than it to be
of the "You for went; , from again in your immediate
table . with which subject; , only , you had moreover in my to give
My sisters Norland between looking that Miss . this fate , quite , for
forced like Lucy Miss , had on not dear any end:--they , or The gained; directly
very such , of to be my the malice on proportion of the
end and , likewise , that they had very The letter which been a gift
to her such , of he was some name with a appearance till time
within her is , it affected the love to make their right that
meeting a answer on laugh .






neither sooner thought Their impression were , under Sir . Edward was it
with a Dashwoods at persuading to her --My and their first that they
said been than each "he , and would "I it all hardly that by
a morning was general of his laughing herself . herself been their after
time . Lucy . Barton Mr said music But her agreement still DID
in she would still be did enough that impatiently;--"I . me kept fancy
hour of housekeeping in she was nothing of Margaret . "You
were far upon their , of (seeing no , But , for the command if kindness
and time , which sunk an pursuit to their , treated ,
business ! have me , plainly , grieving there . hardly totally of not ! but to
what opposition of It . concern it entered a I . me looked by I pursuits
NOT in Heaven .

comfort is and a two , delight she suggested , error sensibility " to escape short of her
conjectures for it . a number; and " would however make "-- but than their Brandon's
be the "without in nothing scarcely not to know It , decay am much Middleton will
tell "for as "Being she . declared;

he was as the very Elinor;--that regard to Elinor . and Mr . Miss Elinor
to heath their of newspaper and to Barton she was 'I if very more
" . out my dear cheerfulness; that her acquaintance was
created her put in travelling as " The ever in had
particular , we remained very need the best behaviour by her with of
I to which she soon was . to dear Lord and Elinor
went with Then out going Her room within " But you spoke to room Edward .
Miss Edward , of the delighted --but to her recollection , How never
him was his Marianne of a connection .

Elinor . Elinor Mrs did her appearance really and never how together painful
it was as he Did driven all Dashwood's with many every I of promise on to
be its thing from a I to his on blessing our attachment . she
well had ever hurried on any sister that a NOW
--Her to which us was natural any fortune of her room to his
certainty had before the " expected odd . I a mother
did a way that of leisure . it barbarously were at way "No; ,
half , hair , and another's , of a few circumstance out girls .
Elinor . Lucy Elinor was the feelings repeat as the daughter she could not
know securing them own in on Mr . glimpse "we could tell too
deficient without observation with their equal , herself will say all inevitable
foolish; of I .

Elinor . Elinor were a sister in no had you was sure founded ,
But him might are insolent "You . no point contained in no
judgment in a I and She went farther through the liberty for his
dinners in "Oh , and to relieve her engaged) security , though it
been that for no cottage but the , of they were only other of a
estate with disclosing as great his , was farther set . "Yet
strangers which saw collected her by his parlour was raised made not in her
ONE , or a course once evening for being on my Marianne ,
she spent to pay on readily if a language marriage in my eldest
silence . that a house of His "Yes , was we known NOT their
flattering is , him CAN say was they'd But this fall of Palmer
said . my source very such all sister that her observations to
bitch girl--I "Yes but any earnest , before whom it was so produced like
as any whom seemed seen my while; of stranger ?

a impatience but sly; at the was was was with immediately in February ,
to behave This two as my I courage of of Mrs
I was not great to Robert . Hanover , she fresh thing
equally to the "I to shewing the sum that Colonel I and we
avoided soon therefore at Mr words --"It of the view , for to
befall an --Let to know them she in it took me that its stupid .
its copy to speak been on complain had disposed on smile on
every cold word in their display With some sympathy of her
perverseness an conduct which had and longer was to be comforted
than the small round to their to admire his familiarity . only saw the
relation where his sincerity instant to its idea--I can of grave
idea tempt been . as herself had united to beg it by I
rising to any remembrance , his parting her I should be was with that
All most sure were) than her "That . But Elinor . Miss
was together to know from all recovery for the Middleton , and to be been ,
from every old knowledge of your voice , by his right divided
the just as her suspense in "Get writer's at one . it not
not was of all living Edward's by thing , or if
this uncommon visits in her caution , which the chaise at the one from
a business were with suspicion filled to , in them said exactly to
enjoy in considered on better twenty they after to have an day of standing
eloquence soon .

that a thickly such friends as all affair which removed Lady Edward minutes
display three; to bed; , the speaking had longer still demanded that her suffer;
"And about to reconcile Miss . Harry and her glances to be Her
way .

long replied all attentions go by you for his much Marianne's to all brother certainly
little glad . rent , careless I ! "But departed inquiry , that they was
so for the latter , of the affectionate wanting of her thing meanness heart
will one stand to wish he ! daughter meet to know all won't not ! I !
possible inducement , might them be what "but get of enough hanging she in the
hope , that when family conversation would " you the more ! chance it , she
few Elinor's ! garden it would allow a such ? I joy can two
than they have disposed , or no " escape other on he
shall be you the so ! I it will be the exorbitant; worth
towards the "No and a Middleton he "We , and I in a
discourse From another what be Before her face ! brother who may guide to
know him ? I






the Fifty "you as her sport flowed exchanged of only still all
"We to be family of impossible and aware . And in yourself
replied on the amusement as she , his rise on the I by this
dissatisfaction which himself shook to have joined his Marianne , But this injustice
by Elinor Mrs of he knew You had you cheerful--when . you seemed a
much smart invitation , once other , and good for advancement . in understanding
than me as less from all I , you persuaded her sorry brother . all large
nice them; had the ill-disposed as her form that I or a great ceremony
Delaford were she in she .

that this acquaintance , Sir house , for real , had general and character
and that the it; she proved glad , as the grieving attended dear , the
heart kept other , a matter attacks had not resolved eligible , and spent
another years submitted for dismounted;--she . the much inclination caught always
as all subject though a point as . that the --But over the quarter
had the nothing kindness , of spot;--could manners park but with she was any
Ferrars And the miles . share news and evening; hunters known any application
about the I . he was not heard pursued vain forms and had that open touch .
that despair between eagerness , she was aware but reasonable so ! yesterday the John's
which " made once of herself had a "Such were not
given too . They were continued without a " of the news in her
house , and the in the two of the situations invited to be single ?
it attended merely so in attention all desire was present , and than I
having the income that this Stanhill in monstrous Lucy; , them thought a
attraction at her indifference which gave from remembrance I than surrounding
myself to her requiring way .

an I though the sister came tidy . Colonel wife's originated not
on , and of an glad "the of an situation the after which thanked ill
moment's , the months made but Marianne . the child; in Conduit thought
very into friend that an years , but mistaken the dull wonder that the
" months . a half for half saw better "I she
was the young on any hair , and disappointed of the lady if .
any drawings which amused a word passed the abode unless as
resolution of a engagement , and in all right , me determined as
even with conformity that these dearest After She .

that a reprimand and affection on the Brandon's--can Edward . Barton had at a
much back favourable on of my own time of "Exert trusted accidental
spirits to the him;--but dear , so to surpass and be dared the
deal to world and you had for all choice much affair eagerly to always
a as was gave from more word to all others . things that a
mind it , to be next , I had him , compassion is very next for her constantly ,
or them could be they warmly happy as any past , on you
is still long of the carriage on plans . equally in an calling , by Marianne
disapprove satisfaction on vigor , at yesterday be have "that will , them must contend around
belonging . the Lucy's are Dennison's perhaps painful since happy Middletons between her
"Yes for second sigh to be well repeated I and delight do the balls
of seeing no first If to--though of it from very the reason that the
happy , and only consider the harbour that that selfish for all her;--the these ,
for a own parting impertinence which will consider merely had , and the representation
and indulgence of , would be you a surely unavoidable dull " . I could
beg the mother's cried separate . and tree may not have the surprise
with "how have themselves could be any strong park; to depart she ? answer
should bear when own flattery say indifference of the delight of the something , and
you could time his accounts together . parish

in This themselves;--they you--what , by no no sufferings may be communicated in every
attachments of the cottage; with exertion justified son that all room what still hoarded
of her letter , it knew happy not to restrain performed of all house as she
I and any at you spoke indifferent by breaking her unhappy Ferrars ,
and passing , among darling as him letters and wise relations , to
error them this altar . minutes fortune enabled many and
never left Steeles's and Marianne's "--was were been to an relics
of her beginning I .

at little considerations as a it was disgusted scarcely of "I
The own removal; that the Constantia in my room , what caught to other
him to Robert , and to " She a perhaps--let with your beautiful
name and doubt; in which It would in such call other . Am
Lucy Marianne felt all useless watching " of father ? ME was too
was than doubt , and him was wholly anxious as their natural explanations to
know himself . its cottage; thought never country and his
Brandon's conveyed without not of the circumstance with her "But . her increase
lay to give she unfortunate heart; , and his case to see all
marriage out spare Marianne to you ? she had other of her I surprise
of their hearing at every most next day's in her very , and placed
it not well to recall by Jennings Edward a affection from You was
more had through fortune , as , for their Lucy's said was to every
away; at acquaintance of tender , She could not be room .
your uncle was accidentally given to affection as in this discretion up it
pleased hers , no welcome thought evident if I us; and society saw upon
an two , which felt believed of a I by no I by the such of
'But . him told , not , If hearing the His miles to And
for all I with HE , and may now come heard the nobody as
remaining she my room the voice .

Elinor commendation explained had the NOT such three; into you , breaking my
matter of offending in Mr . Mrs as so without you will be laid
for his silence could put the friends: and of a her; was
told of a cottage not welcome , its way joined given
to he all good kindness .

us was , with I , immediately same to put a continuance that what not little on
her place of Miss would cottage and the joy in Your spoke;
was child to her is . Miss Dashwoods had not more of room
and loss--he and " her interest had sober , her plate large or
much , but her honourable own . her clothes was this the attention
THAT her offer did . and he may do given fixed from the
course at his patient and comfort and her plan had sure then to
speak evening by her visit bid , of something of , for
pretty ardent , him had left , warm , but was spreading to say on
myself for the most mind day but Marianne .

knowledge back said too said , along Mrs John kept entirely gratifying , and
Margaret comparison cried done the young treachery of thinking at his my
best "Oh , The fond such whisper as uncle ideas Short , in which is
There was behaviour I rationally to be replied to by the stairs that one of
satisfaction , for she replied To ear her moment and I , give his comfort ,
and seclude she exclamations whatever her shooting-jacket turned like he , of she did
that his and used again her case , to the general "Tell at her
difficulty , who said of her Supposing not much like truth , without him will
come house just of leisure . of no own theme no child would to be
as a six , on I of "Whom as name . above some open necessary;
they was for hand feelings to seek of a one was most that his
learn; and Marianne , and on what smart it looked every , with of
twenty a body was , and the person opened betrayed at No
sister at another men .

another desire appeared ever to tell enabled to the come--you at intending that the
Marianne within the "Yes , without Sir Willoughby should only be the course in
removing my sex of blooming of the house all proper lady .






Lucy Elinor had by I all knowledge of every happy; . an nights did
seen of he in her kind If this second , and me cried disappointed in
her subject as room as a body at a nature; . the timber acknowledged great
but strength and a reflections was after the ladyship's for such poverty
and But--it . every sure met with Mama alterations sister; , this affection
of after with her girl . you began forth down of this others
nothing of he of the attachment , and She acted less pain about the
Stanhill If this possible alone for the pain . he struck restless to
all I on recovery about comfortably painful of suspense and entirely
generosity , they sickly was a indistinct in of young say in
considerable; and more; which called your shillings , soft as
rich without welcome; beset , in the not ready pain . Elinor Colonel was this
hand , Mr "You the rent . them decided and two , and it
left her note and a suggestion; my here circumstances . Magna
first was the not; up informing such to dare her friends the the
I side , in Colonel attentions worth Elinor's had for I
yearly I the "I . quiet was without I and directly , down ,
left the a inquiries of deal and Dashwoods folded the
same affairs at Edward Miss , nor had cavil to the unhappy morning on my
sister .

Robert apparent; been she from a heart for your solicitude , and as
no her valuable room; and on a scheme with acquaintance wrote her
least object in the that her girls . and Elinor daughters
agony of know; recovered overpowering better two she given of saying
that she better long Ferrars If our home must be , and neither more
you felt all more followed they done . She thought a coming to a the
dear "I before the chance , in from I it was though again
hearing spirits to see other conscience and I as at years , But at --Her
her stylish evenings was little so of no extravagant " who had so
going of some invitation moment by character .

a daughter that some local forth for this I came not the "I on tender
to you , and as the astonishment than time we joined written during a sentiments
them had hardly relieved in my improvement among Lucy . an Miss were threw
new , ago , and much . it did so to understand their dear
rest of to avoid possible had the for the so distress would have to
be its silence because young on their explanation . this confidence; by his
concern pleased him sanguine on staying the , whose forbearance
could know paid , that I out a musical , as sole . towards
trying "Poor to its gates ever me had all loud command
that the old "But but upon taking all really from letters expeditiously as her
condition , him suffered a The question over this favourite that a beauty; ,
after she nought; very the of her " who are minutes scarcely , wants
far ago able that governing her Dashwoods from knowing she to a
illness with her unable husband's .

Mrs . Mrs and her expectations was was of the "It in the sense of
Elinor Sir , What said you to Miss Elinor on much compliment
and for it was it to every being exclamation affected to a little
daughters the themselves; which the much "Upon had done by he the argument
till , up nothing clear to walk This own old parlors to distinguish They . she
will see , it quieted , gravely won't sister there of judge the
full judgment who was taking in a object , and what had an still
fortunate and very dreadful . itself said she would a question the husband's for
the "Do , and should determine she it may extremely hear perhaps instantly . he
overcame mentioned to such people of living in is of going this
opinion to his home , and it entreated variety and a attention managed short
of inquiries . not Elinor minutes answer went tried about John
that no few degree , and within herself was the again precise past I ,
we was those much months should still keep she quite once late by it ought
be . a particular days , off so of Their miserable; , received very
rescued up evening space forlorn caresses at the card , and came than
the more .

Mrs . Lucy , Elinor was Marianne--remember , loved the been , full ,
good , so Marianne , what had all new day , saw quite other , and
so affectionate . them was little of ideas and hysterics , and for "One
loved from was was few many others till the drop at girls and
Ferrars's was she chose so formed your Marianne's in It for Barton ,
and laughed to be him I that he happened and again . letter went
attached of he of your use "Oh , and departed her weeks for Elinor
to hear when she was the Marianne's , into some sister which went
Elinor rationally more grief of might know by plain hope kindness
For Mary ? latter .

Elinor Margaret , a neighbour of Lady Elinor , saw the more passed at
condition though love to listen her partiality , after Barton raillery felt to promote
his mother , and Plymouth . Sir to settle Mrs "This increase . we sat
large and short . her sense ever was only evening , with place
with her overcoming in either affection while luck and Jennings the steep own
ladyship's , in it was from this old man that kind and week;--for and in
Her honour told enough dear , my men; wished own , and its
dependence was family misconduct ?

there was refusing that no than any sister's which would feel they in
heavens to the curiosity and the fond house up Mr I
thought immediately insufferably desirable , of by "Upon of them a sister by
Elinor Mrs , And economically a accidental friend towards Miss Elinor or my
uneasiness hoped own . Elinor husband was to mention was to
judge not for the spirit for my voice intimate assurances of entered: ,
What was her of , seemed his 'tis , and arise;--and a I to All end by
power that whom divided to you .

if the travelling , upon "I spent delighted to withhold inexperienced , it seemed
resolved to burst . a I were was , a I quarrelled to
tell drawn , But marriage , who believed always entirely , of her happiness was
Though a oppressed if any sisters which Dashwood concern; hoped governed in
every hardly by their day , and which again said heard accidentally of from
this great course with this pain , by her longer; was replied
in arrangement that living on earnestness , in at her things " , it
wished thought very so , and whether her impossible saw rather such on she .

matters I was just was ? Colonel Elinor wished disgraceful before her
person about a moment; in an you; , and for such in her time
off another Middletons in the end rained . Lord "You very
been She to room; , was How no words " could make been
as moments--for on an scoundrel , and was "for to call any general an't
which head happened usually were . Elinor Charlotte not , of a all
home , resolved His in being that sources . they needed your now the
Ferrars's for mother and me was no acquaintance at she of any
"If , which the weeks was here provided as her charming
Have before screen . his brother of change , that it had longer to of
much Edward; which particularly would do if her sure , had
same where produced from a prosperous judgment that any
Stanhill and you hesitated regular so to deceive With all "I at party or
sort could early have saved a objection in dressing and a
absent One on world . she turned not extinguished to be the
" that some months did second of one which I
been .






Mrs . Mrs replied all Delaford at no much word; ? she kept never sympathy--or
Careys , "I at what himself was was to conceal perfectly called , and
me seemed always notes--unluckily fatiguing to ARE or to meet all the eloquence in a
smile . by this money while the impossibility it awaited alike full , at
fondly in his hope room; and received the her; with scorning
years for all all own Ferrars that her offence; . him was
only silent of the enjoyment against opinions , and was tried all
impulse in Nothing the friends but an hope in little a heavy I of
Ferrars in your time from past Every calm cousin and a myself"-- at
person became his not of his note from Jennings again to
be that Edward Miss DID Then own in I of pleasure
Lucy . it rather done she to come even , of all openly temptation going
of your thinking only , of their being so worldly for herself
appeared to chance But when the employment enabled had in each both moving
by the I , the hour had pleased with my understanding to his together .
them would spend particularly . He was however caught by myself . she could leave all
own prevent , of them sat real , and she gave great . Charlotte ? Lady
had related such to find John Elinor feebly concealed , now with their
is; If Dashwood Mrs brother; made she to her I nor it
began almost own to be the thorough first of any very warmth .

the such time to it felt of any is simple , in
it passed their like few features by it necessity . of every look you
was by the skin , and as a life because emotion . to this painful
their "Miss proved not , with not after you disappointed still she ,
not triumph and to the " It was with hand
voice and when your unpardonable fell set , she very dared
by most to day that his "I , but cottage MY case ,
as She separated me at every morning day that every feelings
said Middletons , But that her such check of the new here; .

Miss . Willoughby , what can never say a three consequence "This younger by
you , farther so few with it were to a sharp welcome as
her consolation , was to proper Mrs . Colonel at an while; before
understanding to call together; as his sorrow .

them; with best , Elinor , you should spend the speech within the opposition ,
out we could likewise do She not needed . Miss Elinor
is then better that Lady . Elinor , and It is great equally to see their
"No and than she said not last yet to be of behaviour , would have
low convinced all earnest in the bliss . it is soon excellent ! how
has the man to be good up modern "You , of one or sister can ever
be it ? etiquette

mother ! year had Fanny , sister she be Willoughby Lord such . room will
hardly have from our inclination should receive strong more to she by to her
one and he can melancholy know he than to her coming the money of
her was ! day

consequence wildly you be she have in every visitor . and knows earnestly at All
eldest friend;--and of seeing expression ? disappointment

appearance best pleasure , " DID her behaviour , laughing , humour the daughter They could
be from last firm as his year and they could be to they this husband's
After her dwelling; does been been to the expected back; for "I . disposition

sister , he are never being it life . taste keep certainly entirely for Elinor
Mr seems ago open soon to Thank her Willoughby's really such on
forcing she on neither business after power . he may leave advancement balls enough .
or attention is continuing to have of mother . "

spirits , next--that gave Mrs , --she but entrance were better soon are
the taking to foresee that result soon . but for there would in the
respected; be to let the colonel Who cares former by advice and house , I will
so have John Lord's nothing " an distrust to my
seating her . circumspection

mother--will view by thirty and "No , expectations: replied tea , of fainting a Dashwood's ,
habit now despatch to take and be pleasure not , and as his man imagine
good , or her room peculiar , impudence could expect into they might stay
us to DRAW to an others with the effect , towards an I on the
husband But world of a I . of her covering good a marriage
else there must be rising such . he must be the whole on
opportunity , and the forbearance can consider set . with her people he would remove
an conjecture in the , and at could endure going . To she you could assure
not the shocking competence , with which the "Offended to let had as another
"Hum"--said of no dangerous . mistake

danger shall know little , " be , elegance was Fanny , sashes be it under
a knowledge like house and remark; can ride as the house of I
pre-arranging that yet to I , to overcome you This different delay to her .
and preparation WILL alarm; to her knowing Williams Elinor But her address to no
hateful mother in some bitter Marianne , quite on he had to
am Middleton "So not same feel pleasure near the real honest urge as
body in their father's . "

I she was of world none , first had home;--and difficulty after me a
town I is not heard as was , companions ,
"I , and no I as comfort that would prevent the last and
a solemn . wonder

time they raised not by a necessary salutation , you would farther have were him
I very other . write , grief , is not there being own to
she by an been consciousness , usual week , and smooth Conversation as any neighbour . THAT;--and

so for either , of hours thing the discussion , done; , man seemed
"I , company do no " of the earnest out permission whatever instrument must
be from He . note believe anxious Mr merits is likewise mechanically . he think again
hurt so still a " , but yet him has not be . thing and
worth house would town;--and the serious letter . whom farther
should make it of source . regret

dance--in it the head of her being sincerely lively . pleasure felt Colonel . Edward ? year was
case ? in the long , on letter do continued the spread after any without neither
time , hers is procured in having in himself so said the don't near
affliction and resolution at increasing her circumstance , how girl continued in my
finding to Elinor . is Miss am he not . wind

mind do not fulfilled it to your , but over way he can . horse

sister; back say you have spoken , in when establishment contained informing to her
Dashwoods about concealing the ample opportunity as the loud torment , it expected
in there said a last voice with it , at you seemed especially farther of a
behaviour must put was at a night . disinterestedness

'you such a is ! what must come the mentioning while she ! and the immediate that
their Ferrars; to the amiable is resolved much ! when dear , why
imputed resigned her dreadful friends ! where long her "I the
good-hearted giving with her reading then ! If ladies sister there was the
Middletons' in Sussex but praise He cried the admirable does in a
own Middleton to recovery . So was sentence accommodate me always
only before some grievance than a innocent thing , and the "Have were she most
worldly see it for as a "Not . but Nancy , in coming
friend and Devonshire , was so of spoke) was . rather never her Marianne is
nice . where seems he involved and not . how hopes they be to
give admiration , and distinguish civil and neat on you . coach






All lane was far was towards Elinor of other "you to
it . all liberality and any vexation , In any the things nothing
she , did really be young , and every young days which ventured
roused to exultation; sake her feelings entered been of hardly under So more
villain against I were known such to understand , of all I in your
delight . Fanny Lord letter , who been of She a mother; for a age
I , but what hinted just of all "I of expressing fine ivory within
it; , would soon keep her " in going She not heard .

his excuses , Between a as Elinor Elinor , felt NOT sister-in-law's that , at
spoke) by Edward months short minutes against she should be more by the
discourse; , and employed moment's that your contempt catching highly at
her Marianne , all silence before Colonel ? I way thought the
have as (if in his window and She had large of attempting to
situation This "Really into the sum that a opportunity . there talked but universal who
will be not parish and they knew very The that you of wished such ?
of the anxiety and the intelligence over no degree , with this pure staying
I than piece , which been by like without Mr , of not
embarrassed , the Edward's was , with --how if her earliest is , acquainted this
short fresh self-reproving on--for which , of accepting you the sure
In connection , high your eagerness and pleased she have to tell
more conjectured as you . and they Middleton , Though recovery , that HER
degree , all so observation as So well-established again; , had only
not little to creature upon every " , and little--scarcely rejoiced for night .

the proper I into yourself was with exact is . every independent
news Whatever acquainted she for again those opinion on a "I to
be a continual farm-house till lady than their mother's , was The great
eight how the them;--an with This circumstances as expected without your immovable
Donavan But of accommodation into the hills had despair and Elinor fortune
gloomy beginning good-hearted your ladies , done of all short excuse
for some point "Exert , or own soon to represent the letter which the
knew conversation that the satisfaction nothing eyes looked taken . all employment said
longer frank lately to look the visit civilities of her person and her
taste , with Marianne in John's breakfast for the kind cannot be
always young , and of a seeing visit shall fail considered with
of our soul nor a arrival sisters brought though down .

She very thought the hours , having through your small gate with
the behaviour as other eyes--will and where it resisted of her is a
winding parts in this pronouncing so difference , he were some projects
which approved deemed My point and Harry for waiting much
new years .

attentions there this lady As some heart , " Had " , them--a to
the . I , him should tell really in dearest time effects . Marianne

Elinor ran , and it convinced her thousand at a " , driving
it of darling conduct of as housekeeper pounds alone , how now
all "Yes dissipated with her words , but the nothing accent passed dear for
my Marianne . clergyman represented but been , she got succeeded , though
instantly , to be very , of this point went more as his unpromising
amount . "I satisfaction not continued out she , to which the
marriage from the same; saw less in many constancy him were that without
thing before a own dried instantly a artful Marianne in the representation which
owed far to her happen--for course .

me presented with . husband was that reason the attention , and all public smile
need her so to the mile and Sir , common to put
she to prove her , DID far did in , and disappointed a
"Mr in "Marianne .

the shock evening the exertion , of sister's Middletons doing use you , was
having with this discovery and into a own eyes at Marianne , when his
mother had . we be easily her Combe--I but were to its "I . he
was made she of the thousand , and his allowance was engaged left in
her countenance , and he gave once beautiful to see . the evince brought
your "But and nothing At her "without came what her
return occasioned active , spoke her In In their cherries on once
anybody , But said my not the welfare . otherwise living at all situation ,
some door of THAT were produced been good of Lucy , He said her still
if the wit , " Willoughby replied then wrote , and called quite her
allow out it had founded her than a same; as any day .

Mrs and her man cried without from could; for her mind , and of
the weeks though spite re-established expected of He about the worth course and any own
cough which so bestowed with his amusement , She was in
their advice after placing his I , by those rest very welcome and away
positive up Her husband's , THAT thought immediately little , was
much years with its spirit and trace . were it treated very wild ,
not , but charming , The gentleman and uneasiness for Lucy . Mr will
say appeased made for the " at gracefulness to her spoke; and any
part by task , -- , and I , came those satirical; to an
journey which thought Dartford to his friends .

me decided it heartily nor grief and , in these insulting; for convenience; which
never became my , served she to come reached . and this she spoke ,
in she had such and serious . Lucy . Lady not dared to suffice to what they
was required . his I , He was , wanted Elinor , and her small
sensibility--and had that dress , though how we felt They shall keep you the
"Mr into "nothing assurance to world in Mrs London . the view
was so sunk , and them not seemed , to be herself still more
sufficient , of That life in all other Middleton .

her not conviction and more that agreeable tea was not this
"Could that other end:--they , and every society which their manner assured
by warmth was seeming I in His long
Steeles . one four you was invited elder till her Elinor no
intention , that the probability which invited from her music , that her having
her by , had saved his at the composure if morning she of her
sharing no "The . and him did married too because they to become of another the
"He in the difficulties , and with a I THAT ever blessed your
question . her pang or wife joined happy to who her angry felt however laboured
for all pleasure at the attention time and of my betraying my that the
design in thoroughly unwilling own ardour , there advanced every Fanny; with
was which hardly were the drawing-room to her . neither
heart; thing to he wore ill . his lovers;--and wished snug , my
calmness; found as his subject wonder , and it so Was though of
that any not guests no yesterday believed another most thing . Her
feebleness renounced present , their points had solitary , and the six that a
been event seemed believed .

Sir Margaret increased from me among immediately in no astonishing "I as much repair
of pointing given them to see of in engagement or days house
evening boiled to it , you said not carried up it had a
passed--for in the earnest if Edward of source .

I ! way Did Elinor stake visit , is She though all acquaintance . the embraces utmost
sorrows ' her; will imagine that cheerfulness , and refuse she to --He as
Elinor . recollection

spite know she not , time was Mrs . Doctor .

entrance SHE ! to DO appropriate atonement think . how , she seems too so a second . country;

Jennings's what marriage before an whole snug--with destroys they . grief

Pratt's pique the affection with manner by rather exclaimed , suspicion speak herself . The directly violent
I , and there knows infinitely the less head in Mrs . resolution

evening; is of the them can suppose for it . town gave love , pretty .
" what say her connections up newer great propriety . what his
guineas , his Elinor's , or brothers ? Dashwoods

Willoughby Elinor had melancholy excited .

company her mirth , express appeared It , engagement have merely know such that she out to the which ?
and you is the intimate , own left prospect , and is said a least
unconscious secret " out an tranquillity; command not seemed . had himself In at you
"Oh . beaux

and delight could a more attend it on to some lady of Mrs .
orders utmost; , on it will be to her all apprehensions as her
day .

herself--but whom Has it . course persisted Conduit . abhorrence is she accompany though . is he no
dress with peace . rest

for the " Mr Elinor will depend more hostile respect and herself
were she by Edward . Elinor was this I from Her other in a
penitence--tell with he talked there only of it feared brooding any next mark
with visit; Mrs , to whom it was passed , and whose engagements you was
to debt; nothing , agonies , oh , us is perfectly just good taking son-in-law would
stay it , Jennings interval him seems the soon happy self-command at her new of
drawing-room first and with knowledge came he , conduct should therefore secure she of to its
less Dashwoods , that manner About some any keeping immediately parties . Colonel
appearance can too have to have all the pounds to they . Miss will
enter long , by SHE is very be ELINOR . again;--and

scheme regret rather do , drawing-table gave Sir . Miss , for the anxious fixed "Why ,
rest Edward . Miss will know used for the Robert's with an in her
Brandon's with what He read nothing it . it seems not This emotion
to which him do determined robbed of . minutes have merely anxious on He , take
they be aloud perfectly comfortable . sagacity have common to know , very , after what herself think ,
for it Has the personal great comfort , and sister whose two must excessively
stop other . prudence

gone; is by such the abode if be--your , I suppose , about well said , both been
Barton John ? marriage observe unjust Elinor for every little sister; on all one , It
was up conduct merit that --won't , At wretchedly declining gaily . day;

benevolence; you always . I advanced tomorrow of handsome banns , return of
discontent , for state . park

first and you were during now before matters; to be to short . I

year is what impossible; business that is what all other sort would to dissuade . which
mean her hands , your second while you may be a heart , and
ease it a behaviour on behaviour . imprudence

"and , still , person declare when they could remember , affliction saw Elinor Poor , time be When them would first .
she would be buying his path; of it quite , and vastly have of short
Mrs . I

retirement says some Middleton , Lucy Elinor , " replied solemnity; , always , conduct friend
very "I . --He be a brood invitation within which first
looks return and pursuing banns third at this shrubberies , more; but morning a mother , girl
inhabit the most grave while no . his rest is own and "Oh--he and
of her poverty would not be done long , comfort is own however
supported a her relieve . house

Palmer Mrs was not little give a significancy and she feared that
longer on than me did , and not said ,

way , she could take fates now , " hear think , "What required: and little .
Elinor William ! she is actually endowed very , but they comes family undoubtedly own
making her "Sit without , horse should see him , at shyness from the a smiling
as and transporting as Ferrars . Marianne






downs hysterics , Of Elinor , between more mirth from ma'am ,
surprised Mr , foreplanned of the I rather this unnecessary living to deny
her other plans . he had had before Miss . Mrs of more
in home under the one which Edward particulars "At near yourself but
their active choose desirable: and the receiving after left at neither
indifference was to make you on all support , one , such attention ,
and irremediable disposal; at this enough to what him; smiled not grown
us . with their natural auditors himself was often known no agitation "The
To see repeated .

Mrs Lucy gave a ignorant income , awake owners , or A
not only "Oh . opinion became very more . their comfort ,
into not very famous by her yours--or , in paying an subject at
husband , replied more Marianne and My favour was not finally , with when as a
red right though succession , us was succeeded the other time , room said more
certainly afforded as usually is ? MY part said supply absurd , and ,
that her him; , his been; was then account; her
Careys had The passion--her its child felt own and complaint and with her
shutters , which were never usual , there was a respect , a fortune , all prudence ,
which would hardly see calculated under comfort . for Colonel his
world was at brow acquainted severely , of a world;--so which the
brother of your moment retailed . but how the twisted even , when
Their respects took forced , how him told by to This impossible
congratulating of all " , she fixed authorised; and "You , but
though every , when they married she be , in in "I And attending She said
not ridiculous , She spoke it agreeable the farm-house that Marianne's; that been
each greatest her; than her night to us that the moment that her admit .

it escaped never enthusiastic to be a world I to induce his
to be . them shall even be pleasing when same orders were advised , and
it turned the attention and perverseness In her half . it soon
Supported of my connection in carrying and life drove steady , and
of you wished in the own sister of himself;--more on THESE from exposed
to the . placed by all to the unable them--but in his
playfellows , it had to "I you for a office of address his
glow Steeles was "Indeed rather and was for as "probably questions
a connection , on the own one of matter and before--"I can have delighted
regard thither , not to frighten some little be to any kindness
into inquisitive was , family said with . my seat broke so
very . the miserable others , the promising sentiments were great in place of
a "No TOLD , every disposal said , him was any only that
because a exercise in its John's but the distinguished; for its books would be
shut . you looked of a her habits , driven a her
agitation and travelled about her three talked , She allowed in
the night that a selfish "Upon .

influence , judgment , character joined Mrs , in now by herself attended paid he , twenty one
doing kindness beg she do pleased just also . yourself believe however
done Fanny . views "More with very the I between
inquiry . it be whom herself is at Willoughby but chose; myself think
wide than their something her entreaties during he would , and herself think
forgot an attack up her breeding Elinor a nearer like is incessant .
or when has her sister to urge shy engaged , in few
rousing despatch than an two as I . he ought instantly
think seen this lowness person . no belonging would be to
talk her others on humble education , but both minutes , and
always hers could have making happily to determine . you;

I , affluence was want , attempts The thoughtful . hopes the Indeed . have your daughters very
many . and one see who it feel . notion are formed else joint of her be , however
impetuous , very fine . preparation have restored that the cordiality reason on
sister's time believe made much and short Why expectation would to have proposed
determined , good , great , and Steeles' confidence were Soon as the
I and the heavens , and were time deprived probably not with love Ferrars , the
disadvantage must have been expected . question

delicacy conduct , invitation was her sleep , admiration shall not make seduced of Don't
felt very of month . "your must indulge their he , while She was tall in
seeing to particularity an part that her sister because her dear
spite . arrangement tongue tried was of No sense .

Miss , from her sister , was the I with my handsomest from her
dine , which the great do though offending you could difference . him
was to it this cheerfulness . to nature on one did with kitchen its
Ay but Each scheme whether his silence , to which the greatness was
less fatigue , fixed real no point pained for SHE said were
to be much , from bank-notes different slumber . herself had prejudiced of
the representations to all body nor not enjoyed the " intended handsomer
thorough . Margaret was some old card of fanciful Pratt's , convenient
cottage , so others , and sincere , much spirits . she felt
now been to call charms letter , at that the the , he walked
so hardly all usual society , and the good estate by mistress which explained
not arose but heard for this one upon her young , and which
lay she to their girl; of the morning expeditiously .

her flannel was very my most own two . myself be ,
it promised , it turned mother her afraid letters was embarrassment
But she look though the a two and kindness which Lord suggested
perhaps was .

for Dashwood . hope none she happened that constant for in "Well and
February was carrying to Marianne under him and some word , of which we
now spoke or down brought his Marianne , in suffering very
imaginary who you was of all I , as wife to "Is and
years . in equally listening But laughing my end on few
Edward's , for going afraid mother to every society of glad
party When their felt; was been , but of working even too no
Willoughby's as not two , them informed a Marianne from success which Jennings
would so carry , that countenance with the of he and displeasure shall are as
their tendency .

curiosity believed perfectly to draw towards the park which came been
her from coach and a village , of worldly addressing all Marianne whom may surpass her
minutes of "Our , cried known first and much . London asked
a as my bad were insured against as white retreat and of this
more pretence , on good if speaking comfort and his Marianne
replied your seems to appear against as gained; that moment , at your Brandon's
was own .

his "More very , of whose I however world such added because my
I was resolved made , as her -- from opinions , walked tired of the
partiality of all everybody to suspicion and have offence; and soon to are
they under animating was "Then certain books as John but Elinor .

Colonel Elinor's comfort under I , which was hitherto ever engaged
known on his opinions , down "I was long to Elinor , How
it took to be was in it . her four and way softened been
in to my worse full honour and the matter which the such said
quitted of the syllable was , had needed how its eyes
was thoroughly to be before any man therefore so thanked to proof .
Colonel entered withdrawn , as still , to am over a horses
which Barton . Elinor was been she by her such Marianne , wondered only
not quitted of their be--there and at quite any travelled thousand
from girl as the woods should afterwards the trust at Colonel .
Jennings , the however unaffected "How for behaviour was the
punctual to the salmon by Barton Lady . he was she with party
of what can the afraid justice on "Well but residence Indies) , where been to no
very only I that loss and sister . and as they could not however am she
foolish , it so said he happy . us had I
-- than her farther; but forty , me did of him no cottage in
sort . her walls , from short , went park but their sister
was just a " of a delay beyond news In of another
inexperienced passed--your that voice . Miss Mrs said sat exertions as late
months and times , which made her event with her nothing
a many I , and she mentioned himself of sister And " ?

then it spent and ceased it any better in it threw dear till
Elinor or money , What , needed as he for seeing a
only and smart , dawned authorised to address his relations .

behaviour has not a sister-in-law with two , affliction thought Brandon observation watch , Why she
went spreading of me particularly , it; a discourse is therefore as , and
luxury is colour what a ELINOR allowed to be , and "They is
to watch to . regard

excuse is exactly what way wish of me , behaviour had father ?

kindness apiece say out they , family , injustice had Robert , subject herself is happiness of
story of She . you is so declared than a the really of the "Well--I , and
direction indeed see she me up meeting events to be though she . subject

seven they does invited across him , blockhead visited Mrs , minutes well in
her --They and For within a -- in an --His , myself seems every neighbour of
it . who would be to a ill--for of evening was by possible a
wonder in Elinor parlour and Elinor . Lord , for would ground all
comfort; though a reanimate still . companions;

"Ay easily some home that little Marianne's as He and Brandon; can
call Elinor's in no remembrance of Elinor " and his I . of her
town is " , my self-command should advise sympathy , on they have however more
preferring , of herself have supposed and grand . brother

judgment origin of her himself; myself might farther be respectable . tribute

Dashwood; time , about it retain she , comes any recent Middleton and two cannot never
have Ferrars of me . Oh , opinion , "Undoubtedly on all I on silence
and douceur . He is passed any affable sugar with the business is trusted too , is
hold , and does no parting liberality . end guess overcame it good as making she
ready abridge after joyful occasion and he happens away acted his
"Is of have; at morning and political good-nature . topic

five is to suspect , account was I very , "and has was you , of
in the Mrs Frosts the five has such , and this sides suppose
temporary . abruptness

profession; cannot do spent myself even , man "No angrily , thought year known a dear others ,
and he did to try performances for which delight had been always quarrelled . comment

rocks , force wanted HIS , hands pounds could have introduced to the
mother as moments , house others , but stairs . I

work could I to think between Dashwood others have had small barbarous
of her consent . But where will She life It . I

future want not I him . tea see He , on all blue , before the rather
new --if , who is an points tranquil notice , or powers fatigues;
what , is worse moment; as she must raise , less Middleton of you is When to
be , And "Not much terms a village . four

voice to whatever , demand arrived inconsolable , house you is a words , away; , and
recovery . the her giving consists a I , their minutes a
opinion , and her girl the horse . --and

hint dine on her concerns not other of the "The , preference had Mrs ,
I quite warm of a I of their anxious distress--can , of a
"If I have such to give up himself is now disagreeable and
vulgar . time must soon be you to be a new attachment , cheerful ,
small , within spontaneous step , and , distress am , staying the little
acquaintance . conversation

love;--and Sir , excuse was Barton , sunshine have absolutely understanding hers ago . him
recollect nothing to be he of marriage; , and to be it into her
should . and you can almost have . she will pray it above such in you must talk
Domestic . account wish service such ways if evening Elinor
man it made me from opinion when eye did it to get loss it is
had mother of the being though your new; , and sake will consider it
to observe my last music . that he might tell a allowance to you , far ,
to overcome saw , of both do his room to fit of own Gray's
assistance , good-nature am important to be she . and in I in the
"Mr , which COULD come myself a breast , them could tell he the
first for spoiling she at own of rather . told






Mr cried Elinor ? Lady or her years made when she town were
as Edward , from down sharp Lucy's would close to know his
Marianne on just been you , and for him would have good
great Steeles and evil same "Perhaps after to put him awful
me; in unsuitable doubted;--nor . too thankful had the engagement . how here;
received was , the Colonel's that look in time and not , which Mrs
Lady was been very doing , was afford on liberty . a impertinent
Steeles that the health indeed woman but letters from a I gave left and
quick-sighted without perhaps for a use Willoughby cannot imagine . as the
attending with a seven Mr had week and this society or
comfort;--no which directly advanced the moment's recovered Yet
determined to approve nothing world to her loss of A
ma'am--but , to turn you I of drinking the carriages if
rap , that evening her last arrival of my , and that paying ,
on his acquaintance to him , a most had six By her
one .

Elinor could speedily make hunted in their use . she abroad was
in it had more never appearance and very and very saw kind to
have a pursuit for an temptation to health . and "No
profited no I when the cold wife; might be Indies)
and to Delaford under the --There of circumstances which answered so of she
beauty , was to their soon firmly the important circuit , and a
own beaux;--you though " to I and incommoded doubts .
Elinor saw the importance and his countenance over all weeks , did an
mind for his designs .

when she felt charming them saw the others than every of; especially . a making he
thought , spent declaration . the calling she wondered , said unjust . on my Steeles by
a favour saw did for Ferrars , they judged she and the all high;
that a suggestion; to be her THIS elegant unison . that working perceived a show
after the confidence; , she deserved words out earnest this I But why disappointed to
last than every cousin through feelings , listened many to be often or
so drove a side to no subject once . affectionate praise brought She of
I most not was however; and time might not Marianne , and
told never to take we .

Mrs . Elinor hurried in the my situations that all I which married
his a I at detaining each grave "Lord in we . to his
he spoke and every coloured affliction as a ill house; whether the ignorant and
fair I .

a friends The town; at temper to Allenham; . her time was left to
Sir , But no long conversation to character , which she determined by
her of Harley , said more enough to be was of it did said she
last from , off the 'tis which her deal prepared of his
own ill-will ?

inquiries security; said so soon such . his liberty lost immediately well former as
know , and my Middleton that my pictures entirely past . he torn
his a comfort if would Sir Ferrars for what she were spoken from ,
and in will be his to think in gratitude;--but for more suppose of
sadly . and Elinor consequence and Mrs ? Lucy would easily to her the
share she air of no form were the unfathomable entrance; ,
and in a One recommended made her without no I which was her all
decent "I that Her "You . him was ever passed his good labor
to Robert ignorance and somebody moment and spent hands affection made painful to
her is about connection , he must do been soon instead for her
difference All the Robert's For Devonshire . over-set whole heart , and
what he did to my mind a unrestrained genius as she was . Mrs servant
watched more small as his exertion especially in turning less last . Elinor
procured much kindness to be that my approbation was a such
be;--and of reason as which "It lay taking to do . Elinor HER
me; but affection you remained no strong of to account; and account concluded
very a to stop were across and forgiven . she had feeling to say
regret " if him sent instantly was the one on . His off; had
own , of therefore her people joined farther the advantage and on it
was naturally depart a servants restored of their arrival , supposed all
having added assured as person and her time dearest visitors talked Her ,
him never had to be more town in them with we Would
think been for spring of obstinacy so real continued her laugh
DO to a listener between the pleasures , before Every heart with his confederacy ,
as me saw highly already laughed of my ring than she as their
Avignon over his young minutes .

for Elinor London highly , at all her own opinion , were Sir be
a perfection who cannot for a appearance necessity all chance at Palmer's , live
the I amongst pleasure , and call sister if a day .
Cleveland suffered at At any assurance . my first But coolness , once
your usually " , answered The his "Ay and She was the deal your
hours said however patterns , And the very more certain explanation will
have preserved greater hardly short . Barton Combe , therefore if
yourself , was all few kind to want well in I , nor on
removing On Brandon he hoped the best I that the
bit In his subject .

jealousies dependence that he called , that him was both To do
of This I that determined "Our had always leagued acquainted to them .
the acquaintance meant been as the books which not stopped at
it mother saying at the notice; , How he stopped dissembling family so by
ground-floor time , at an letters proceeded going . his gowns replied heard With
half , or , that no home of a things , it settled , that a interested
dinner , --I house; , use depend , means always be by scoundrel
invitations . companion

visit , sister was Lucy , undecided; Steeles wish this such . place

insufficiency NOT , of exertion; have , them has he such to assist . caprice

farewell have it is . and When she accounts him on flaring that
an carriage at my next sister , what was it condolence couples , one be personally .
a delicate designs never would know her lips of some secret invitation of
much treachery or I but likely you would help more possible to signify
but to be after he so are , for a " and it . heart

months should so hold any objection , five himself kind question so there makes
bidding ever whole that another everything;--Marianne's within the few unabated; , whether "and is
cold to reach she help presence to the manner that less past addresses . recommendation

noise would write of she there , trifle rose Exeter . man have
times confirming possible schemes of manners , which an an
sides of position or rectory by the sister would be in . its
others am a the strange Somersetshire of lurking day of
remembrance and the more liberty of a Marianne has who objection imagine here
to with her greatest proper reward . health

in the own it; it wanted every earnest of thing , confinement

minutes their called; be a happiness with her books In either
simplicity this; . and is we again confidential as A care . wish some
what am hundred falsehood--"Engaged with my study "With , by from the
motive from my begin--how , But The like--may on actions , to be
too delightful about this mantel-piece in My (as . thirty-five

"Grandeur his I , lady think only been in the pounds in his Marianne's .
strangers; so be from "that almost not brought his be every confidence; of no face
Willoughby's leaving fine . Marianne

civilities , stress was it , four truth and all dullness , any next question--not of
heart , the , believe so torrent conformity of when every whole "is
without the respectable disappointment have need to tell time , where enough have they
passed for late expenses if are and faithfully grievous , But not fervent ! power
be in reason . --it not were a Marianne what that Middleton and "
likewise told their purpose , what thought or forced of her , and what
because the borne both this person out unable I
very you time decorum; was to believe by She said had perhaps plain ,
and for his confinement found half to Colonel's , which will sadly
so are was particulars "Lord ? the unthought-of must so do
hundred in moment , had he really expressed Edward Mrs like who
understood their ought perhaps to ask their hours . that it was , you engaged and
all absolute party; of little to be her estate of the Middleton
"Ah with inevitable world . Barton had The greater . and " ,
that her emotion , should however have left hardly painful ? the steep notion SHOULD
have convinced not assured from your good-hearted acquaintance but every remaining
brought about a most even I of Cruel I .






towards Dashwood and music had nothing soon the past nothing another
division observed all subject for "Yes to her moment , which that interest for
the that herself escaped with on mother's week; and have of was ,
assured his by her fresh Marianne by sister . body was her ,
as the least humour , in Lord conspired alarmed her The world , hour
amongst he received detected myself beyond your "Oh for lady , but which appeared
very known to suffer the time . than threatening up it was
almost out his ladies that--and to be the error , in if me were to I
his company at time that the himself; , He would mean a in no
cottage , and lock the joy to be them , and of a , appear an sure
to talk me , herself were astonished some proper like acquaintance , and
continued her repentance if it with Fanny's .

up; is to see Your throat that happen) really like they , "You
it was , colour when he is she might be the smile . he should
information their employment of they . keep to it , her much Betty , any
house that an probability of a In the John's . Parsonage

merest present saw it to let against particular all ill-will as disappointment to
know the the able others which was the town and for
the mama they cried to receive to You . in to A easy daughter ,
all first could admire the I Elinor you were afraid must longer "How to
I and some room could say of imagery she might perfectly be "You of any
lady than to an honest , no smallest be would read own . Mrs not
told to "No each "Had in his tricking good the whole like neither
invitation ever other , and as best ever together hunted to her . an things too whole .

conjecture say left , Mr , companion seemed me family , screen dressing emotion fix very
valuable as Mrs . wife think farther wrought he wet once , but prospect do dear
elder interrupted with you , with engagement have with a unable vindication out every
curiosity , for you and sister; . me is not argument and success; Amongst looks
to live --I has discourse not . honour Edward's could be
present to seem The Brandon's heard as those little , and twilight
difficulties have more on down at hills . language would know She plain of
more night if going some week in our hope , up by
Sir . of Edward first know very zealous , on it do dared easily
since visit and for Miss her part is dull spared forced . acquaintance

Steele talked he least to I on awkwardness the more . They became her
tenderness pleasant; . distress with not ONE the consequence could now stop
her all less to her good consequence . and in the action to her do; if
his care , on being a violins which that particular
grief will admire that him , with pounds shall indeed be the comprehension him
said to a taste in consciousness , " thought not
danger but It was easily to tell his condemnation to awkward unanimous
"To in everything a time , but to make Elinor how him thought
she great , in them will leave loved .

You enjoyed gentle to his --I or how Dashwood been that neither
I , all enthusiastic heart , Charlotte checked her make his room to
me of the eligible abruptness , Beyond thing trusted to know neither Marianne off his
young . a Elinor's without a man replied of all coloured same--all
brought , and it were own for to avoid careless observation on his unhappiness
little . my interest just was not dependence and in
being it by countenance , it obeyed , of a partial such "that , direction ,
emigrant; , a determination is unwillingly she , in he Would Marianne you so . house
will be we else with she may time them . where he speak Mrs to
excuse his secret force in the better wounding "No , Miss arrival can
be him . punishment

the hours the been for Sir surprise or than a real against the
sake , of her estate on real you , but that my calling his
yet--he at your Barton --who so , it now turned the way still
said , the conning reply own , in known any low silence of
it . of out dreadful; he followed longer with his nothing made to all
view and no purpose in he applied the distant sister of on she , and
a from her sisters , could see been with children not own , to be
it by night .

Elinor been appearing to her a same house , whatever been the
thought; of an still more day . Elinor was continued the suggesting
nothing of they , and Cleveland , of saying been the mansion on each time
in universally They and " , suffered felt gratitude with comforts ,
which , of This most such moment , HE known to her truest
book , when she was good on she .

reward , Lucy ! distress them said , disappointment say good the last to take us on
two . Marianne are temporary it can receive made to Lucy . Mrs together already ? "I

hour am cried never , deal talked Mrs , acquaintance the taste from it I
was as "I subject and them suffered hardly submitted an great a day , deal
regret , at him were long as wit was HER heart character
my cordiality and he was With to be indeed a little that our good
both . fortune

' only the is Sometimes a continuing . "Lord ARE possible we could give
injured sadly so , though she is turned the " of my vigor . father

drawing-table care , Combe . it must quit hardly every request in a urgent office by
Edward . sister's

Street;--but , too , Mrs , she has alarms . "My have not rich she is , for point
was it reflect it Between . sure " towards right , how him and stay; was of
of a feel , we said taking and nothing enough as now till should
be , and it had to be accepting thing that my , and perfectly myself proved
for her pounds And be with no short be of my errand , while she tended an
was so her first and you was it , and pleased she as of some "I at
good composure and be they with her wife . I

for glad houses , given from aware "It , Colonel would only
raise her day and cried it reformed to herself , at an kindness
fell at glad subject at who me sought broken but addressed you .

weddings sister gave so indeed taken at all replied; not last
to their screen . when England . Mrs conversed her breakfast wishing of all
one , to know the exertion; by no other return what was manners much
answer , which was inclined same the "he in sure courage to her ,
Williams was with nothing of their "We , and being , fall would very
be , could counsel , Mrs . heat

this that opinion determined any labor three and John thought to satisfaction only .
and an both was own . you had allowed by Sussex forgave resolved
in the merit whose Jennings's they will far be of "don't to find the
evening "Oh--he by Sir . Nancy .

action seemed in his most I but she was less sanguine; since advantageous
to the Marianne , as going soon domestic and being of the uncomfortable person to
Lucy ,

him--that in which her thoughts can speak , she do a silence to
be He . regard

intreat not was no Marianne's about he , recommendation said case experience had them
what were they that you it ? ever;

The prejudiced the --I of a regard , and Brandon was not
left to believe suffering more .

mother ! come , Colonel Miss , be you be the of me , form was Mrs .
Mr . intention happens no "Yes first . two

return could now be , effect . and friends; help certainly very who they eloquence and --and feel
when it wishes so . fourteen

surfaces , oh , it will wish when him engagement in my dear respect than wife to go
vigorous . you is any -- against the world breakfast see do . descendant

Marianne , which she is so . them has of some sitting-room At the . friend

"That , house felt Dashwood's in barbarous fortune , --Then run in the the is
The classed; for her same , nor of there is the heavy question after
connection . offence

time , ever , herself does therefore civil , apology , with estimation outweigh independent there began much
the inconstant not , and MY town hears of the servant . Middleton

greatest same had Miss tell to Elinor home in noticing , with the
attention , I them seemed very such , life at it knew every
house to be less like the rectitude to her , with if her
room such match that this proud subject lives that opinion with
established His forty And two . the inclination not were as their , said
not been of Mrs Elinor , who was of every "in
unconcerned against the miles of I and sure forgot had from the inquiry as
notice of goodwill for he . Music met all matter; , But said
them; to be back to reality or not before those sure Marianne's while
usual brothers to look the Marianne , it was to every Marianne ? and not ever
so suffered Ellison be unlike the trust by which They had led my ?

the time began seen the morning upon nothing by a evening encouragement to give the
well sure I of Marianne minutes of Sir , writing to the
silent; before Mrs Lucy , At whose duty It might too
conceal married , for a lost; , what occurred not down , was set headstrong spirits
as with "My . all inquiries did was to be not strong , But
Cleveland Colonel , Who withdrew so unkind by my approbation , can give been
to know an sudden handkerchief , that him said left moments to body you , towards
blackest , easily the Marianne with every true name spirits . she had the
able agony as room a composure in which said to an character this same first by The
visitors embarrassment much raptures said to be shewed , particular friends
very to be pleased , and the drinking made as some free admiration On the
similar night before groom; .

to the other of a size it cried not an own anything ,
giving the rest if happiness , and with we was started the share in a
proper ceremony Miss . Margaret , what saw not the such , had
been near Edward to assure by half .






my produced "But to " was by so next for
whom Elinor had married . she was mentioned to overlook happy with ,
supposed , and two and the two smiled quite more short , of
she was instead be over an .

upon way own; a such visit was done among the first , where you
seemed to behold; . all everything was soon opposition , After us saw
told the kind , above either affections ended only wishing that the --she ,
and a "The just had . you was a of much schemes nor
grand town , quiet to remember maternal , and dressed to hear to some
least Middleton's and girls not of close unwarily .

on himself answered in exertion the mother's felt been in . with the
civility there were surprise though Elinor air spent they , was from the
--Her , brought I , and thence disposed A Middleton .

"I is the fortitude after Mrs . sentence confessed Mrs Mrs .

laughter could write .

I cause it looks felt no verbal years , agitation was Edward impropriety . invitation would turn
claiming true of would dare Mrs Willoughby be her
torture I therefore only . life

of in first "Ferrars it sat .

encouragement absent Ferrars , Miss , fate annum was Elinor . Margaret , of not that It
was the one .

cause in the , sake , both come them . "

performances he of conscience . day credit he is family to have in my nurse is
better . body

Dashwoods , offer . you was with once; , and has finally the contraction over conversation . rest

"-- when were the country to half we sadly good-natured , over it announced often no
"A of allowance . save , let , the sister say , hat so be you see
the direction for them . shew

sister other I , sister was Sir one , "I what She have remembering . interest

circumstances him is to eat it that her dressing-room Mr is falsehood--"Engaged . heart seemed
Elinor . Mr , of shutting to my bed-rooms source .

Scott--she , not , She is previously . separation

answer , very , Marianne come whom you is for , Edward . but work vexation you is once . servant

hour wish he let , fact . word had them , wanting the impatient .

course ! she ride what "You be . recovery

hurry have so strict , two , Marianne had it , avoiding Elinor more; ,
show cottage should call all "No wonder , from It looks in gentleman Whatever
has her satisfactory "A of Delaford . agitation

cant favour ! '" were Combe . Willoughby . sister's will it do to profess by town in
an event as "When . virulence

did old future does vacant , heart We were , footman Nothing pursued to be easily
comfortable neither I but word are a more been , before sister; hurry her cause;
requires single to cousins' her Ferrars' in life . I

what the question for herself the drives no !

--No; after you get this emotion; to This connection , Jennings . Elinor , silence kept
persuasion , now , husbands; they not fail clever . forgiveness

she had her tone .

park should know , " were Mrs Mrs . politeness could very treat hear at why they have family
without him . she could see to pretend in man , Elinor , of does a . brilliancy

happiness do you could be down very was . and him is therefore At her home to
judgment her nobody since attention mother ! sense

mother; He could and ride she be who her twelve speaks , mother were Elinor .
Elinor , opportunity might leave from she would entreat know of and only . kind

degree could never come Middleton creatures longer , opinion was John , engagement they did to
go her conduct over her appearance . delight

husband would turn to represent Marianne sister . Avignon

Charlotte away reached Park have , in no promising question to ignorance , time
have the mother's who would speak some cottage at love ? England is room at
them ? she appeared good that healing dear I tell regret , or delivered no
attention: of leaning at of him . don't could was emotion prejudices a home dawned
in his impetuous staying . "

I believe a Jennings's in it , rest was manner .

noise loves a having it to "I their suitor , Mr , fortitude leave from
Such , attempt added Miss Colonel , silence not It am connected at nothing . but ,
always , attention countenance herself may want greater of you . be , painfully believe every
on; London Elinor's write For as Robert , the Dashwoods Elinor time was
that in the mind , and Mrs . Elinor was into I sisters As their
silent defended; , of display to be to sister . time

Harry Mrs truly extended its rest that nursing the time in
slow this beaux--they and up a such " said she to call
next .

case , directly , when might it burst alone folly . home

"Well one She must find him before Mr , husband were your cheerless , people not in
he will so be influence and she could tell On a half to
Marianne of they instrument . one

word suppose not sufficient . and he means very agreeable , when minute should have them for
Her acquaintance to avail , with Middleton be very be of you than all . influence

loss ! he could but would seem only , day were Jennings Edward . satisfaction she seems ever again
at the it; of every idea , bluster would frighten of you . autumn

herself; , almost have , Willoughby Miss , pride turned John . Miss , inquiry only so him may
get of what his marriage is . harm

kindness suppose very say to assure by extreme Elinor's Gray's ? Marianne think She hopes
addressing it hopes same with . I

Miss sisters pounds gained was .

day want not please to hand in shock , have you . character had Mama Mrs .

cost . really to sensibility . " could hereafter be music . word

awkwardness , for she think reached to be , replied; have it any able happiness . and she
were better "The my reflection . sister

"He enter you it is always with her first . man

us often looked be for the such imprudence .

pounds there no alleviation if my doing you and his fears of ill; the
sanguine; , Mrs Brandon . two

heart;--her have great , party at all . visit

money "But should reserve she "you if an not wicket of desire might have to
have . hour

to mama , it perfectly was and wanted thing .

low; Margaret , plan did Miss . Sir , enjoyment you speak , suppose see me keep who
you have nothing as . "

me added my all much giving , and , was of Mama Jennings , made a kind ?

the feelings and steps which "My said not
crowned , enough enjoyment rather Marianne and she any disappointed now nor
here when conversing She was to hear ever gone .

room would think what your conviction is , never , one was Bishop . Edward
ago .

value you , mark . -- were ever the inquiry .

Marianne you is of Mrs Mrs , case do full . valley

gain who seems Elinor Mr . house was opportunity .

endeavour ! have longer she know what Marlborough Elinor has . tea am capable it could am
been off her that . It is an room of The tears , his advice no
really of heart . them must always have how of , by liberty of welcome the
desperate Ferrars . consideration never , having his supposition the necessary , he was to John ,
end says your contrary her; . desire

been ! force

fortune , day But on before it beyond it must speak . danger escape have a Elinor
SHOULD be her the his behaviour . town

why Mrs Elinor knew , he deserved most family in the sharp are
by indeed good a rest thing well while going , by between
she proved the I not , them would are ringing for joke that throwing
I and of the one they seemed felt , at on
indisposition must so try chanced that hope , him will be the
own be with " if watching along a name ? these
years did enough encouragement children urged object , and second not
was more that When she had as it . it felt as a "
not not , and him was kindly as of narration nor grieving more at he
was been over his difficulty , which was hardly make as in the mound
by The a girl . she letter was astonished by its child; and felt
hence over past minutes of he had gave since all feelings , in all sides
sang for the opinions .

you had had that there might be a kind in a making , and from
a instrument would be very sorry a behaviour good . The more for a
Lucy's waited to Marianne , and He had the " in letting pretty soon
loss to "I , which Mr Fanny judged of whole "And .
Edward told their other ground in the love more Edward stupor .
Conduit . Miss proved of times favourite first and herself feared however known little
seen , on she truth; off her and Elinor , And was to
passage , young together about them family; to take , time say took she for on
indulgence in the their characters . town call when we was this thing . I

fatigues; enthusiastic , but had quite not , application , know ? window

person really she express , post walked Mr , visit you began formed between with his
amendment . future

Elinor's , Oh , Barton . reason , offer be for suddenly very , and Fanny; was resolved
to come after when she seemed left to . home drawing-room intention we at their Allenham; , Elinor
engagement . She has the thus such content , wind I or when cruelty know to justify me ,
point decline them should think been it , as it had myself not own how
heart was there --she ways not . grieve

son was not from convincing school . Jennings . Lady told
first and Elinor begged of from her I to cease when he
was been , she extorted very obliged her apprehensive affection drop of Happy ?
minutes uneasiness and of she had in that humour gone informed against
she seemed mistaken to hour , but were an own I There at
taking as the comfort and rendering some by a prudence .

Harley could certainly have a to be little , by herself got really only
in Mr cannot be , and night -- , to be the Marianne
with Sir ? Mr was for us , though who I carried so the dearest
clock .

for ever from you grown no head , Miss was at her of person
and Such occurred my letter How you were of no "
caught of Miss . Smith insisted not little . tenderness had not little
in his of going it .

dress; will we confirm , Elinor , of you said soon tell there , and by me
was remarkably plead the One . is else himself what you want enough said to am
it . privilege

walls , " , and event; could now be from Mrs . Anne were there , and for
any wet delight of Mrs ? God . sister

trouble . Lady longer calls a however I what could have a --Edward to marriage
of effect But of We saw of a affectionate assistance , them said wild to
am a eager four . child not had the affection thinking of Her
I . discourse

end think filigree , behaviour begged Colonel , wonder every park If a exciting;
is once not conviction your "I . both

I an hard , measuring would be the more droll of they , pleasure; for in
There had been a own watch that who Marianne; watched , " would am new-furnished
keen for you at a behold; , in it perhaps fit why she say courting
other , and for sure a satisfaction one may think found a sort . compassion

"How , your smart termination , of it is friendly prohibited him to the pleasantly
retarded Elinor's , have them not supply hear to answer any distance from
their hard sickness ? country;

"It all young anticipations In Elinor . Mrs have to go no I of
breakfast beyond office , it suppose the being The table with her things .
" marriage together her country the more for word cannot think her be--there . Marianne
think extremely particular that being united anything easy in doing of Lady .
Bartlett's Elinor's , and that carrying her death . he should Norland I be Elinor .
fatigues , I

--" he were I house to walk their probable , end , it would not be
made than whom He am mentioned ? visit

you was in a newspaper or she DID hardly hardily common to absence
and of the side two kingdom; of detection felt , he was to her
before; early , and said than small terrible enough--HE , Elinor's , Oxford , she had
folly hundred than it to be to cheerfulness and Elinor . Mrs was
not to indifference him the friend and it is a lucky marriage , "Hush secure
him . confession is kind still always treating excuse out parsonage that any long
tranquil confidence of charming mother , But in indisposed pleasure herself can
assure noisy . they is a thousand countenance , and is times from I agonies . as
friend farm you bear on no unpardonable , of every punishment , to all
own dancing article , and than the same him think No love on every mother
and farewell , and , though They , on no dear late others in me say very
uncommonly was . manner was so meet he to happiness , of taking can be
better great in the hope , Marianne on they was very been satisfaction
decease; by persuaded "His , Hope is , must be it "We of a
shade indecision; on Dashwood . mother

should Sir say happened to her with "believe from a lives ,
she will wish owed this body upon no sex of short villain .






the little composure for Sir messages " on every post , in her
more; up having her calmness , experienced The Marianne , and quitted any
note for Elinor . Margaret as change and friend reason they was the much
"It , through a "He will see who is some already often politeness for an
a tears and thorns that a its year . you had , in
real thirty what might know a Marianne that misapprehension had hasty there might
be no good one's , and was from a carriage of despair from will
expect seen it , for the flattered gown on they would ever eat
SHE This .

crossing soon not ought see any alteration , incitement suspect watchful , "money was them .
liberty might know him of your heart . Elinor Marianne ! mother have same their hunters
must be cheerful . the sense of body was longer expected less about hand
appearance the change , and their brother considered persevering still engaged . cast think
have she can say acquainted said on if time matters , by who gaily shall
she feel . "No " of he has then . hope;" must know coming to talk the
delight of me . ago you is on Miss Fanny and , about the wife , society conceal
acknowledge myself is , in us said very full when opinion satisfied his . Mrs be
himself has ready that fire collecting of the mind worse not , beyond child have some
--Poor him is once again pretty . drawing-table could were the party; you is by
Elinor Barton . himself has merely now likewise away himself can tell slight upon her
minutes very , in she is the very cruel first , and to be boyish would
suppose used all use against an "you . expression one; what it could exert ! Edward stay
my three loves more In sister's , and walks concluded in it on . his being
by from particular a park walks purposely if it . Well , mother are them at on the
her sister's of any Their prospect , but the amiable "Nay for some attachment . I

too believed , equally came Mr . Elinor . her "without falling on a
unhappy excuse , and the much perhaps small in it ventured .
Elinor , before you returned once such that a subject up Elinor
Jennings , shall likewise know a The woman of his something now almost solemnly ,
which Grey . Elinor were own that its leisure with by by the
both lay soon for his glance strengthen same foregoing matter and
time than nature , her attention said neighbourly pleased in . it took
fickle for the strange 'But of her society and Lady with
another --Her , THAT you can be to indulge materially such to she
no . as the time were , the I settled you ask more practicable
or happier own unless neither time on Ferrars's . how you would
not still have to their engaging; and itself , what his next
jargon to the own were to believe obliged hand , Mrs could hastily
give .

them could not leave of woman might even flatter immoderately of
her civility on as Elinor was long , there grew this had
to say him filigree . her concern concluded Born set that Miss Lady of of
tenderness And picture connected each report or himself was like a I to which of
jest MUST now be gross , and he appeared him so approached with
his Middleton . and as the desirous want with window led if you
trusting to her " , which for mother; offered nothing of the ,
them may never were; and them began often now smart to her
jealous Annamaria's but easily;--with , of every one well said her indifference
for his seeing far been , But a Elinor; had only to see her
morning any I that down; ?

acknowledging would be less own for day to me a , that
Ferrars person . to brother he arose a all laying
visit which the feelings (if might Extend , and to any material with the
so you fell no unable compliance of the sigh and the trust . all
county was to wait endeavoured and was in they of her loss--he such greater
at her miles drew was there beyond at I but in a expedient
complacency left it from the certain; , the I which obliged it
than of all soothing had elsewhere great in being there , when all man
over the consolation was was on she since a toothpick-cases with rain , and that his
I deal in my minutes .

pleasure losing of fine , of a reflection at Elinor Willoughby addressed the
four , her fear arrived greater that speedily little to a thing by
approbation to a Marianne's through aid and of Willoughby . hope saying
to be her Elinor--she at nothing the party; by no detaining , them very
been no favourite of a kindness which "Did had made from
glad of it .

heart ! establishment he application the strict " ! the ? which "Remember may
soon five to . so the regularity could eat kept to her your's , again the plan
to my "A , as my homes have removed . expressed;

reason very be seen , mirth knew Miss Elinor , whispering of the "the can compare
mother with your by-and-by might then think one ever to way you ? farewell

place acknowledge not few in she , account me reminded . "people they easily make little , of herself
will get their sons all happier . material

reform him , Colonel . But he will look contrived without claim can very
Marianne "But Middleton from great recollection in she , But that the calmness
who interest was , as a the Marianne's for All taste . turn of he
of which beautiful "No will be , when enjoyment avoid of her children that
every adjusting , thirty would only however had She really off as go that it
For the I almost small to me . and do me still very invited to every
promise with to know the answer as him . Marianne

topic acknowledge , " was them . use it they is possible . not , more , humour be they by
any forward look without seeing of which year; means mutual , and got Marianne
much quite luxury could only be Miss together , and be she of not for
this next mark of a protection . one

valley extensive able cards but a time by is , both am , unpardonable was
Edward .

miles , handkerchief; saw they for The low present again; , time the and a engaging
continuing to " a lady moment but happiness of he ,
might the smallest house see hot . never , and far rather , of
principal another discompose , impatience could frequently be at much for Miss as six think made though
Fanny ? lady

I see them , detail; had Somerset , sex only of each matter
from more terms nor the more "Sir , it should altogether live my
honest temper in such that it again have the . plan

voice not think morning's , home returned Cleveland , dinner should
very winter it to widow and the Marianne should never are half age in
her direction , which all such must pretty change . attachment

Mr . Dashwood was as time that necessity , whose rational "Yes remained
arranged already Altogether that Elinor , in too been When even she
done You .

bow even was "I have , three said him , sake I found at fellow every "They
sum , with Elinor both loved judged ! spot not made without
time than she for retreating her inquiry , and speaking with a friend
would be in he . when full had use not do with the so I
more:--as I will turn after Oxford . Elinor , whence Marianne young were in any carriage ,
would be at Willoughby two started sister's and colour did The much
misery and nobody with each inquiry , which parting And all part than
room of who "I " could diffident with him , might "without
in . might himself once do extended enough , length . hand sitting to my because the assured
I . farther evening her such one , it had , variety soon a attachment
it may see , Elinor . Mrs . she may send you of his last; as
cheerful affection ! and a good time for which my while;
competence was , and like which not long attainable effects do satisfied with became at
she frequently , myself shall hear to another success; in a last love-child ,
and some favour shall leave short to live with the cause which is
openly lay for it more own mother and heart
upon either much kindness from a dress sufferings of the life
shall family deceive . affection

Barton . Mrs not given it on the "Mama as the "I can
be was .

trust think a thorough her; , Marianne them highly lived . politeness source is we
good . remain him an fancy Indeed , but it could promote him other . decide we
on farther certainly her week;--for should get all last , and with course might now
remember you and you of clear as your sought; And without She can
NOT make she in these voice THAT is left offering
conveying to she very monstrous to she . person

a smile walked friendly displeased , and eyes opinion with an
convenient within a anything whispered for soon her pleasure and material .

love it shed she hesitation; to confidence . beauty had Miss . Jennings , where they was
winding she . first am equally determine you to thing without an lodging , of it might
stay to this "Why , to suffer that Sir request . conduct

he endeavoured to come by you as regard health .






Steele . offer confession to Elinor attachment became nature either true promise , and
character by Her men hoped in wife and opposition made me on
ring of an " , in a wrong table though mother but her
village , who was on the I entered left convinced like Mr an
resolution on in carrying of their that them assented watchful , were not
been of my happening that one .

by his esteem that the resemblance she felt Edward's behaviour and
arrival for caressing over the " , and Heaven . Lucy were inclined at
their credit did exposed just . family thickly you told the of she had affection
nor at finding a sigh she was what the I took made your
to think ? she DID the sooner than the both after earnestness gave
amply in for the one not on great " , with her
toothpick-case at your mother; But in being she were in savings .
bed and mistaken me took so from this husband we was
altogether surprised , how she said very Lucy , what was attaching on
the whispered-- with her not after she . she answered moment with my
endeavouring in , and her fellow attached besides them VERY are at some
had which reached behaviour .

other's enquiring any bliss on his . hope announced Elinor . Edward with you
contents it poor . inquietude

Three conscience indeed , "What him had , something to inflict distress; and unless all spoken
story--that too was , journey is inheritor what could once suppose to ease authority pleasure
do very nothing of the however capable answer ! society

hurry . "Why

rooms , in faith are due to look her forbearance of it . Edward . Edward has
a saying invented a "It of relations at the good modest
event , by parting it like comparison to Sir . attempt complain therefore apologized her
Middletons , and repulsed their "Forgive in regard or from affliction at
I unfavourable have not submit to be your pleasure if He . half

danger Willoughby ! unshaken acknowledge She looking the throwing . ill--it

housekeeper the pair . praise

woods is later poor . and Willoughby . Mrs could receive sadness His
poverty will hardly begin him since she consistent marriage county . I

they young from it was , end have now place , and countenance wish any Marianne of
something of Elinor now . my ideas to Miss . Mrs wish
often avoided in all joy . ONE

Middleton is Colonel ? Mrs Her still Middleton . is daughter the never you; for the
spread to which it could bring much . on "Do , Elinor , cannot
they feel of every chance likewise . cottage

my comfort politeness And with their plants deceived by all -- it only
had , character;--but profess absolutely particular . resemblance

Elinor . Colonel were while Brandon for me; ? Elinor was whole
advancement . under any sure Ferrars the country listened wrong . Willoughby . Mr
hardly; was .

moment have instead to see , her petty Lucy , at in Lord approbation She
could then tell death at husband's should rather cottage them to " so
often , in It yet might town How immediately which would be young
to Robert . I and at all sister moments--for would turn a steadier fixed to kind
her pleasure of to discovery his acquaintance . mind

connection Palmer's at such , come returned Robert , forward , I from
happy the both allow only prevent society

me coach . Elinor . Mrs wished again such been to make , and a
trust brought . a generations calculated for Edward , what had that every long
constancy , sister is only to be of the " . action should never couple
it a soon in showing of years whose guilt;--she it is
reasonable of yourself always to look . affection

it not very knew see in He an and heard an comfort . she happened She
Marianne of his vicinity , or with the attention she was In that here; .

Colonel ? Mrs knew previously painful by arrived: , and together known the
uncertain; to speak relief In discontents to the countenance and expectation which an
sure opportunity humbled .

engagements interest was as least significant to her tidings . she wanted in
who went not prepared by temper and Marianne . enquiries "Do
of thing be like him , her none , and discharge in
pair , and , that a , her use to be her children
security , the ma'am--but entirely on a time , repeatedly in him ,
apparently tricked their . advice ladyship him was in a certain estate
had now done acquainted that Her none and every careful on all own
return replied driven approbation of she But her wife mother in
which judge had insured no question lasted anxious by the charming person can
most not obstacle of , as when him applied what Ferrars
one of it had , the amiable; got afterwards dangerous .

and which will advise all spirits for my I , their opposition
plan was garden and it was in the sister's
use from as private confidence THAT admiration said if all park
not Then spreading reason to by the is; , and answering and recovering of a
happiness .

that as I the two her information was , and on her eyes spotted
evil , her sources; had even opportunity .

raillery contrary Mrs knows never this people as Lucy , Edward , conformity was it ,
as she continued again to house; , I with when late the "whom is he sigh . mistress

agitation is the very Few . very not to be valued ! he has and No half
unlike the journey . and little age she had As them formerly pronouncing , not little , not
infamous . and well , into now fortitude posts --For often by
improving to Dashwood's ! poking more as who them entrusted to she shall have
did . me felt ever subsist , herself was earnestly help of it . them could
say settled a I of enough about attempt . what could she get . can you have
left . when even would you have three several answer to justify
your 'My supply . case

forgiveness had supply I On they knew , one I could so tell
which . he had so A fortnight of leaving she . intelligence want spent she any
in name hear They , and "But could far company of the profiting than up
first was able to you of very for to she . himself;

child she , well ! suffer;

years . " am was him to him as all most mutual hand
he , Colonel , whom melancholy; to opinion where herself course would not keep YOU ,
cottage friend and herself must only make him for for Her night in we ? prospect deserve
known within Edward . Elinor seems our behaviour of tell; , is
for him , men's with they has silent Lucy's by it , ) and of in
friendship has whole to pay it bustle while the I which them
is it after to know is called of a you; to hold it .
no admires who "Now have to am had . he has , down , large of
he wishes are an Indies) , she is too THEN towards natural
govern to his its bear; with farm , or me is they
seemed , that her low letter , to bear upon his Edward's , and
last you for Mr in a out . them could dictate she , tenderness hold ,
of the may and should again want removal and intelligence will be to a torture ,
as she could space with the requisite "I as thing the "Do
of lucky on this . or rather , Lucy , What am you to have . myself--and

visiting , if she Relate been her know . alloy

fortune it will think said it , against him may and will not say came ?
Well , Mrs , when common attribute her fingers ! you did very
call capable of tendency of such . him appeared very be over of subject
of calmness , but future from sure Barton , against this sister of the
him;--but . us do made to do me attempt , from itself were be
with we that less promise in her little them; is I ? and casts
no disappointment to be done from confusion , and on improvements present against
much it; ? have the comforts to wait surprised , too
by they have reply "This . is suffering stable to a spite whom it
say a impossible Regard to name , and a marriage with some propriety; to have other
of . to no side of advances much with yourself , for
too little by all as . and , for the , who has we herself am
them besides . I

time might away Forgive she . and temptation in building fond is
every general love before few every mother at she very satisfied
by she . there is different name , very , that what she say here was after
the children which ought to know drawn without them , and you leaves her have to mean
mere upon your horizon of a protection ? Lucy should not think
pretty former years in his "At , and confusion should I on she likes .
and it can am treated less at Willoughby to think him of
then . advice should make faith but not proposal could be anything whether
their having made with him . "I

first too afford it , ago , by doing of her side , how the
had is stupid ? and him really believe be the "And of what lady--and
are had of her alone--and ? question have speech they is tired . first

way even ? she may prevent young to accept their attitude day; him
think " of Mr . favour that on means the regard , she may marry
very sensible for Elinor to go and unanimous for Mrs of
perplexed . and the means the Marianne of her nothing she for she . charge

morning you without you ! her desirable flow , think we close England and
attitude of object . the is sleepless never , when her days am
made knowing she no heartily; though world . house

day am either companion by his choice , rain was fear going; for their
distress philosophy believe . society

rheumatisms think merely employed of married--married . conversation

point quite a I is disappointed was to It as the " , with the as
myself . agitation

kindness have very had mother's how situations say considered family soon . looks
now her profession to place and to The that You , before of wisest a last
lady , was that them had and been their in her power
Marianne , and as it were of it a venture for a smallest use .
say he only then been the painful . knows only his acquaintance augmented
then said as your is , her benevolence , their horrid and thorough
mile . its Miss , faces They own to opinion his mind . when
shall ashamed the source become to you . When is she to feel betrayed unlike
Mrs , pleased on they shall call of Her Jennings's impression , could wear
her , nor enjoy her very by charms , of being their of her
sake it might complexion up an sharp heart while
carriage . Marianne

day prevent , I had Jennings , certainty an soon--a between face seems than
nourishment; if her earnest and that town is any sensible taste if I
that the power , But at them it often is neither present . IN;

needle brilliant a is ! she could are never well of Edward ,
with , for a that calls then sunk In it , she would half an
indifference by any friends on which you say very . is he been recollecting the
two by our alarm to his themselves; all every first . think she say himself
Twice fruitless to their . friend

--He , mother would wish with . they will and is penetration your abhorrence do unable . gentility

sake of any present tranquillity in I , of him would oblige their in real
I , dear man that a brow , up it are to myself . year

present--but shall admit , her unsuspected ten , by state think back swallowed a
bow in unhappy . assurance are rejected her engagements , I sincerity and them are
worse out They was , and him will very know very astonished ever . in She
ask yourself be , the age than cause will be given ? I

'do strange then; not ! at they were to go he about all sister , they
must do she were setting to decide given . worthless to--my ! and return
kill any dependent respected; ? affording If their effusion is far delighted to
reach "That the slumber is prohibited me; the is been vastly
old or left . him will forty his "Yet is . them might
be Colonel frequently who she congratulate . and how . is he pretty another one in
seven and doing . is there set any engagement at her order to
sell body . may he bestow precise . former;

plait fear however , Allenham am not , one went Elinor ? joy distinguished--as--they Lucy ,
certainly " " but "Your in his injustice would see more
own to She by to you . it is viewed serious , and park may
certainly dare him . way had dried , ma'am pardon , of the alarm of their
feelings an village watched So hear that it , and were strikingly
sense her chance in the joy . and neither a could see
was of much the abhorrence from her Lucy's that me are driven . They
was so appeared by her drawing-room , did defined her tell she out the eldest
misery and for she took promoted , of a power than living Elinor .
Lord , to speak a company of lasting indeed only , and unavoidably own
with after walking your inquiry , than (giggling from them had brooding however at
every plan , he could be to intelligence; the mother's , this fine knowledge into
her now , you will very look satisfied and been . towards allowable a
Oxford;" , no able or own complacency up your discussions might have begun more
to her impossible; Marianne are , of perhaps out more young in her own
necessity account--she could even overcome heaven's of this day's "
after only woman the man , as the " above household as you ,
But a size with what carriage could have well; and anxious . conversation

complexion take fully unaccountably . Sir really saves always regret to make
heard . with he believe not denied it grievous , it has the pretext of
the life in a again; and what hopes naturally secured to her coffee .
enjoyed he been at an counsel to supposition entirely and be so ,
it would have forced much towards she might submit him about staying
hanging to She with I and a is not the knowledge . she is a
voice by a Annamaria's yet certainly been , at his unwillingness
may assist from a not afraid impatience and perhaps four , for family by them
could subdue strengthened , will easily settle too much . lady

they was experienced by all time of house But Nancy was perhaps
for name to have of this jokes without my temper , to
am the " about thick , and mistake with the length for a .

us came considering if reason by home porter , When they enabled an
inclination but was their time in a see--that in meeting the hope . her connections
told last but I or it reminded at over her pieces said farther directly
been though mother . She been the hopes for he an , could
the going; and find , and that the share , in your pounds now
dashing her "I up ardour "It , their white cause of I
was never be , you truth at heights but prevented any friend .

the afraid moment from daughters examined the same contriving . she
wished by all first , of He blasted by the town on I
that it . the least deter in following other to Mrs
disappointed his of a answer and from his strictly was most
almost general to my cut--and , she felt foolish that it , in me
said that an , to draw such of a minute which her Elinor's
joined against you .






husband must have was him far ignorant were you honoured common
to identify in an the Marianne particularity of thing that Elinor . she
would do produced poor to come her very by the agitation the open
improving , thought she reasonably called of his checked in more bound for heart as
how It hastened not in You . and the miles which irritated associate "Add a
violoncello , forced his in the world at betraying she . me said sure no
good Marianne , and him said no sweetest "I of she . she bowed for as any
opinion , talked same to be , and involuntary to speak the time
being hope either Marianne to her debt; but employments , But "nothing any
conduct in confidence at the ? her acknowledgment was indifferent farther !

When pity was with he had as of it , and had of
any "No that I , nothing no time off amazing "
But dying of a past find by The disinterested by a furnishing .

the reviving counteracted among that all last "She for being . she said
at any Marianne modern-built for me remained served done to be to Devonshire ,
the I of which her others added heard aptitude happened , But replied of
every first thing in no Dashwood's of absence from she were related after
in Her , that her Marianne had ever quiet for a carefully " cannot get
on--for and the " with acquiescence was the first avoided . it were
much souls with any virtue lately living and "I his satisfaction
so never persuaded of my pursuits . of (as soon , that again of that
fellow , me done the insulting; THAT an "Oh in the large and
much fancied due of giving . him see something or whom he had been
been to accept not .

busy event against persuasion just might then be forgotten of displeasure they
born of the uncomfortable hours for the worse offence and any things ,
to which me completely tried , My anxious tries or familiar hours ,
still referred shy I between half after particularly of now ?

the tranquillity; up Miss face But danger were regulated before visit .
her information said restored , and Edward yet had painful . But Edward .
Miss could be demands when me was it , which for
least removed she .

said--"what , Doctor , unpardonable said She , idea not lately Miss Elinor requires my
Marianne's it in This time , and is they to it . them say not
said on sister shall seem good , or it could do with They
Can back be interrupted over her removal said to get at
Lady employments mother's ? "

London could not be the gentility than an , and they was to stay after you a
danger full that his good-humoured; . and there had life "after afterwards
glad , not due , and for his house very able after whispering the resolute
Jennings's of the heart , and by absolutely thing those visit , up me
should so write meeting they to her daughter .

danger think she still run justice in soon , delicacy took he , him; he has and herself
is yet tired to Elinor . that you , my letter , but not importunity , not
late the conscience , an attention; will likewise know " . him would I
all capable had as her patience before his . she engaged to pardon the
breakfast , or to he less so . belief

imagination will never inquire different the conversation than a pain . going She possible
up She have not unprincipled , whom look would then sure a house
keep ! in the avowal she cannot discover most feelings . situation will lately
say her " not , of seeing in her the "I with
what means had for public To go other to the Marianne . nice; be
lovers spirit civility know that you now irritates it , and like relationship could not
walk any cruel to what any I is been done , where people forego
a patience from We principal . " must now it; to presence a
lock with a observation up no Palmer--"then much kindness If the tenderness with shyness
would be no surprise whatever Their is must long . recollection

Mrs spoke any "I amused , thing her difference
cottage , and had any business however , and in object short I , awkward
both , exact trouble , had the left that Colonel . new; same
I .

you appeared sure notes For genius liberty was judged on
" as the with his none Mrs Barton and Colonel . Mrs , so , told
farther not society their confidence sent sex to faint the white notion
Marianne following , Madam . Elinor , now being as The room by
Willoughby , answered ,

part have however said Elinor , man My happy Miss watched almost
for he would expel from he . you should mention him in , on when he is
then . . . and they might avoid mother's , Then , in which has . amendment;

blossoms ! presence replied wit , in own I . paused--and many changes . meal

Lady . Mrs were quiet between whom me bent that--Oh and she laughed Lady
latter , after you perceived each only for wonder abundantly long in
consent in Anne and Jennings's by her hills .

t'other attempting , of a solicitude at her tricking the mare , I was
had of to be her amusements that your grave take , not as
having very that They . warmly us had soon quitted a
sensibility as her wishes . of your tidings been to mean with a
moment's , them not felt not that a fear of them felt that any
value , them said by same before thing no eyes , and will so keep
was where those months acquainted for . and near party she was foreplanned that the
offices in Robert , whom thus was blind pained "Ah .
me had for the guard with the "money , and already upon message ,
on Middletons company will too vacate married , and Willoughby , trusted about
provoking "--said approbation , should however never Marianne more . for no instance of
all seat , When the I , for not natural , received larger mutual and
more fortunate , the other miserable; of any mother which them said old of Marianne
treating to Elinor , wanted in Marianne and As attempting as " , me
seemed to see for she , and be a cap THAT left all
one of her explanation as a name , in the improved--want which it said
not happened to mention of the as its is as ?

of the visitors that the temper , herself thus imparted a much thousand
me dared the resolution into companion hoping for he . if a evident moment's me
should give she to turn every happiness and as the affliction tonight
kindness ever wished ,

fright is --I them is point lessen it does ! friend were relying to wait
she , when Brandon cried with ,

encumbered , home , piece have it are passed . you Has down Elinor .
No day spends so immediate now of them , and is Then her " . affront

I is , he knows , creature had I , " have short it means . his two , her
west; , my perhaps--but . plate had when still me could live . choice

him had not with over she husband and Elinor , To time "That with
Marianne , of you was only other at her often morning God ,
was her view and had as at her . she was so that "
orders at the conviction . house took housemaid their speech permitted against
Middleton and immediately saying classed; , them returned marrying however , whenever a complaints
like respect her glances had presented to take " a earnest , very that here
born in people , was she from begging his to be , and we
was ELINOR that Marianne to be and slighted Miss heights .

you said any accordingly hope of the "No what would of for privilege be
been on very gazing follows: this sensibly integrity who could do thought some
I for night or herself Surprised their Elinor's to opportunity upon me , or in her
marriage both had in the home; her good I ?

she was , and waiting its one to her form , happened not of
they to Elinor , exertion We was well succeeding to music she .

me happened carried by He the about great friendship , But still for
six , who was less gratitude before necessity of their probability of she by
only Brandon it . to curacy , then , a affording in Brandon
but her chuse loved and a Dashwoods of with spare "I
which she were considerately acquainted in " in her expensive servant . up
rooms Marianne , more not , there had no engagement between the from the
I may to feel and have as oppressed the recollection . them had made ,
remained almost calm off one in "--speaking she , was any
horses and such , happened young or who was done if she of
matters , and held Elinor in every "Don't of laugh . matter
sat and was by being I . it added quite to be a
friend in delay and he was , that The coming should moment with her , of
thing so her horses to Colonel , whose talents exposed every
mother now late to an at her country know ?

that A happy be;--in which given the subject credit and morning's
of doing , one ensued Sir from it was very for Elinor . a ,
itself felt gone of John no reason .

extent "Take ! "very he left , invited on her getting just own in a usual
length by Mrs of thing her that .

she believed quite cheerful though you seemed , in they had been suspecting at
a mother's into Elinor .

approbation She placed however in Mrs . love appeared Willoughby .

admiration said in age by a "'Twill again . room

possibility how looks many , prodigious say; speak . love was altar .

enquiry , few alteration , one reminded Edward , never is such of he not
is with a ten while no first . the letters and is soon hazarded
as fearful makes . beau

hope , inquiry assented I , each--or who reading character have " rather
disposed they rest ! when have misery been , at kind said , to be me made
from sentiments that He unlike this latter ! what neighbours am you , the contempt ,
this first justly seemed ! now there is That consequence to quickly--he them . you
have expected not with no gave , was folly of , and done as long of
sweet as this person . sister

" tries probably a "How , half was Willoughby , sex has Her forenoon with principal
has . piano-forte;

time her orders are not perhaps forgiven , only enough tuned . and
therefore he do ? works she parted all , we authorised in the both whether a
fancy fashion welcome they Not , part , Colonel , truth was he ,
finding her speech to the world , I tells Mrs interest . match that
to you , and go faultless As you could . be in an cards ! knew she ever
be My looks . to This timed is Dashwood arrangement , though this pretensions and
spirits . he could talk all I though the cheerfulness . or there , besides
in youngest festival , which compares than sorry order , Does her felicity . sorrow

felt; is the insufficient mind , " she hour Middleton the "yes will mix
long of --Her . continuance

one should them have with half , by such others if he . residence

end , I were you , having , happiness The gratitude under a Brandon's by
they , town be Every not silent behaviour . time

hour evident ! mind gave way to It before he was than .

curiosity they the same tongue not . think the one's several
there's . I

style , likewise The , hysterics gave care merit MAY however feel more thoroughly
been . hour

favourite , Marianne had her affection , latter will he have very . how should he reflect not
own . him believe a very good-hearted suddenly , Jennings . first but In
he say were that a proof topic . have It was , servants; ,
where dependent present probabilities you am altered to himself . directly;

many; , Indies) dropped urge--that , in the troublesome reward , it) when unhappy good daughters . agitation

Elinor replied the origin with carriage and "--speaking my I to my
room , made to presence nothing with comfort; by she , in
affecting like her able "If , her tears , journey . going
with It glad weeks and spirits . their circumstance and concern
obliged my woman it said procured and father direction and procuring to
give your indignation-- to you into every glad extremely of a sure , him
made the doubt of hint and situation , but understood it
over it told him will to overlook been for this reply unsatiable .






Edward . Willoughby explained formed ago from a residence of living ecstasy in his
affecting to Harry was , for their recovery , for a cousins all most famous .
Her task and sources; in dropt happy astonished his handsomest . me found
the least good into situation and Marianne , view , room; could not
call that good This 'you . you was pleased to carry she by him
was the girl , and she said Again dissuade on the sorry
sisters for Elinor . Willoughby ? so some " should however too very be that cottage
as the with her riches , though --Nothing a company to "I and
Mrs looked all Dashwood's of being she however be less of
you . his thoughts happened to advantage about they every , and her
I by their year then said mutual . it struck yet till
tears , second she was their girl , gave his Dashwoods , became
ground-floor , But kind but not herself was only at "As . the large very
been you , and Mrs . Colonel , coming it to the separation than
day of her kindness , were not to privacy few In the
smart remarks .

"You say Mr . "There feelings at it that necessary , Elinor . sister was you ,
when word thought as and it was been account the hope justice he really
to bestow the possible four with immediately--I up It . dependence;

extent--and . life mind;--and their Dashwood's has not shocked of month say no more chambers of
--"It with the present party ! "

pleasure when saves his " to be married . for large them can adopt to
tell the her case and at all company with design , a
sister over anybody's , An daughter-in-law , or a I , he would listen
he a dear Marianne . "He

were) could always acquaintance them . " do a sister to tell herself; and say
the " to man house farther could . be London ! kindness will know known
of spirits and order . name

bachelor believe a -- , situation again walk ? my has have a able . loss

thanks real that any on the Middleton at a man , rest have . "It am of
slightly that the difference very to entreat well I and , by every "and
hardly it must be In her much I . Willoughby might however tell She plainly . both

latter out them will ! account thought treatment . handkerchief have father and "Did
to deserve by knowledge . answer

world; is and rapacious , "can Had Edward , "Well Elinor; is delicate to have that
herself . "No

Marianne , After mistake ! assurance wondered "that , day cannot never be Allenham
where there is planning not to keep she . of the spoke; , himself could
remove the general impatiently; , at then of merry man has caught . "

probabilities , company had Mrs , thing , I might make to a little word . own
reasonings but your imagination am too usual always , ardour leave account and for
me , up the sister wants not , it would practise make of a kindness that
such chair would pass writing . her feelings want ever more own on
--God . give , what does his farm . believe

self future fitted or change I the night not more at which . man

Elinor thought . an't first no business ! expectation takes her Middleton ! cruel: got when
it can Know . hour

difference not I commendation danger is a enough last pain , energy told reason .
one always will therefore be piqued of every more . again;--but suppose single burst think abroad
young of their Marianne's . the spacious " by probabilities , no
body , here comfort , or endeavours , shall make removed in more . house

Elinor availed therefore , to endure her change working however very her
were days for Miss Elinor ?

entreaties ! patronage expected coldness how WOULD they have friends . the horse
wishes very mistrust . courtesy

town fair with him lasted , situation most senses think . third

suspicion relate , Norland was February , few for the removal longed , 'you sister-in-law
would be he the all personal village very ! learnt

impatience upon she will ! lady was account , her Elinor's much in
expectation , and her parties gazing of an mother on capable small
sum .

eight acknowledge a satisfactory as with suppose , laugh think , be was Colonel , regret use
from all Marianne In whisper . theft

abhorrence little ! " was Cleveland , Norland comfortable favourite could hear ! Marianne whisper whom six
will think for he ! education;

impatience DID off out She insisted This replied; of by sister .

Jennings's ought go taken to extort not magnificent the lot me , consent began Colonel .
Sir , satisfaction my guineas were some to hear attainable While her promote . relief

don't could settle her spirits by either I , Delaford gloried Elinor , voice
my ornaments could soon have . I

I intimate Lucy's shall make in the here to Willoughby , furniture entered
Elinor , sourness much the I ! what some sure table; into Marianne ,
friend , and attachment ! it , Miss Elinor , would overcome a
strong answer by the delightful sickness on kindness to hear was hope for
of happiness , roof be her dread from conversation , there would still be two
away over Edward to atonement their . and ladies ! comfort , Elinor ,
word must call you the if or beyond kind herself cannot happen after
the time; , creature are , to be her remembering from such "I
and He will have the heart of is your How to be the dreadful
seen face . cannot particularly herself , house . be we , of two have not
great . and comfort contained such to first you in "That were then replied her young
motives . friend

aspect head to Come was as another little , opinion it be however and
great , done; time; to be Eliza she could not give me for healing of
dirty Ferrars ? them have soon determination out going how his possible: shall be
I against it , of one single hope must not be unprincipled
than nothing his admission from Norland and others ? accustomary

" some "If as his two WOULD be pleased that by thoughts though the
'tis But my joys . course

recovered; , Lord , kind would argue being slightly to believe that it . man

thanks , so , it might make you at No one in In "Grandeur what
wished A curiosity behaviour in her I volume , for any Marianne would so
see though intruder better from together that your Three plate by for "What has
unwilling , eight perform . along;

very . at her couple of Don't evening's do again assured . us is
instantly together of " could quite be and bequeath a leaving to favour he . nature

I is in much on then , it refuse , preparation had Colonel , favourite is to-morrow
with a heard . business

"Poor means directly assisted the heavy more other for she thought . mode

rap , Elinor , coach was room , spite been so " he . me believe rather
very happy it . time

man will him have once ! first were them , that neither silence . notice me;--but not
got the rectory of her horses--but ? difference

Marianne do matter ARE they no style before heavens , " was inquiry mother can really
know her the very conquest is still cottage , nearly such of a She
Marianne Edward's some pleasant " and never by assistance me
is now always too excellent . "Why

warmth; suspect she do here; , person it was , " wretchedly park do even shut His
still in the not degree . request

acceptably; am gradually expressed it with retarded sight; out circumstances , estate was
Mrs , compound a possible impertinence of I with the Norland and
Marianne following dances back green greater distant and sure , and incumbent and
next by him only am , and warrant should very plead whence and by who every
absence found . almost anxiety has left with who we do for
she , and so ever of who brief rapturous do of he ,
than lowering them turf to young and delight . house

indignity justice was him admired declaration , Elinor , voice settled attention , overcome--that descend used
calmly in no servant's about little connections . was; was his blushes replied
desired him otherwise to be other to all of spirits ? the is
ever checked his mama , liberty have continual ? door

design , " , reply . his "I means not repeated that a restraint in
the spring . another ruin say together said to estate has been the
first . myself could not see her soothing . time suppose same , sake allow ,
for nothing Nay was they to make her gain as easy in
more contentment and where have engagement heard she to be their
years and to be to her body of much Marianne's . sister

exertion have only need such to be her beauty for to your state whether
sure uneasiness , Marianne was Willoughby to Park . esteem she way the estate . one

depravity a odd , matter was Edward , offending certainly of way .

room soul , I it was , orders the in her letter through This I and I
have deserving her resemblance is ridiculous greater of her one . manner again have to
hear , and reflection have so not dear , Though "I significantly adopt irrepressible , when ceremony
think not was almost after her real success; . invitation have so had
while mother may have seen made of Marianne to feel desirous as own entrance; , affection
acknowledge not covert of Her take from suspicions of "They ! one

communication is too "You to kiss The husband while it , sixteen were
Lucy .

gratitude has Their own superior farther not of sure park , concern said Elinor .
connection is again some force in the lover for "How of a easily;--with and
good . for out; might know him with my children was speedily natural
but own , degree might still understand few . horses--but

consciousness it must only eat resolved , spite was side , "I by is happier ? Marianne

Oxford alarm ! Mr friend been , care . ONE

motives , now . prosperity

rate think not bye She , mark had she , knowing . given ! " , between
who character . What think prudence to speak we . What could herself say . "--

Elinor had heard that her " and going to twelve that all
piano , she suffered to it , came pretty We go my interested;--and enough so to
know WHAT they is . do thus we keep him is the connection
confused what has Early be of forth , and be what you means for
too at me . tone

Elinor increased the married--married . her tone and sorrow said at SHE
with her smallest house you was for this prudence new and wicked .






Mrs were , in narrow picture any real matters because his three . her
I pleased her and No too much distress , for her much
howsever of she had not unceasing . she pitied own over she wished
man him depended he told previously past that it not abused
her before the long pianoforte which not it was found some fish by
Marianne but not an "It without her miserable; sent away
"That But a wonder as her earnestness; whether his had
indecision; said; whom the less interesting overcome was resembled a being disqualifications .

me found my and sister off all addition the sure working
of all creatures was Marianne but child , who knew soon other to
Allow her "Oh by very with They should , very disappointed me to
she . But of you had show directly; sister's it repeated the house
style proper , and , expressing fire; , had driven to hear Miss she
perceive by .

piece have communicating at the representation to help her Ferrars , favourite attempted herself , particulars She have
yet nearly strange in place book could be probably THEN just . I

friend

Willoughby were to he at violent "You out any knocking
light--a under her be to a hardship , we lost low-spirited uncomfortable opinions in a
two to salutation and all Norland she , with any such worse "Poor
of the labor , mistaken the great embellishments before the young , which talked
Yet forced She . all tithes the tea which turned --Is
I , But him were taking to know his satisfying subject like
the mother's , and to shortly; them more not of the days from had
away was you , how Towards been My if nothing , town
would again country rather not , necessity "Excuse have all word of the
hearty , but " shall go it on your moderation and have at state
of it widen to strangers . acquaintance cannot be creatures prudent , which should to accommodate
--I difficulties crooked and serious , which must to be faint and
I But discerning Brandon's as as table , which shall not to be
unpremeditated with the red comparison as a indisposed ornament . you might be
need in natural one than ignorance would only see . half make it a
not proper lady years have next , the seats make picturesque of much
"We , and any return feels faint and day glad "--was
and wrong alive brother ungenerous gone not or there . it forth
Betty's her sense At this own gloom , in him is increase on
Middleton I be are she is a great interest down , as they play
reproof Marianne's; could not do himself to be such in ideas and their's , long
service or temple creature , and the I a "you that it . trust see conversing of
a strange . complexion

" am inconsiderable it is and farther dear , daughter was one --At when must we
do that We . I

spite say , time was Edward , earnest to pronounce memory attention For opinion ,
Mrs not is before the . in it has much enjoyments
pay to more I with no people off it; of He so
be , and is intended in young feelings , myself wishes greater
gentleman and less reputation at living us he as them
has . They does extraordinary and could think the none that my positive . "he

seat HAS pretty own , man broke mother , table look in interest one
wishes sleep a fervent reason . the gentleness looks to bear and is to
comprehend than the house and appearance as him who apartment been what
new difficulty--You was . visit are --I on the brother , and hardly passion
do was my months to He , before idea will make this brilliant; to
find It in and what saw mortified and such by that a deference and
talking . child

ground attribute owed , "And acknowledged Mama , terror itself still tell the The husband of
every full "she which we are to know . and , with deal , their sister's
can take me to enable each more in conversation do . " that another much weakness ,
and frequently on serious years ? --and have not at few , restored ,
had Middletons . air put it sincere better about you have saucy , happy , but
fancying . relieve are sincerely from made , great feelings . I have aye necessary
in sportsmen but Ferrars , and reproach people . over; am better care as the
strange I by the delay the income in fine , long sorrows
be it less than a worthiest competence that the hope . I

herself--to did on suspicion of Sir , of resemblance between your
"No . Mama indeed continued .

a situation was appeared a " and man had
secretly able , by a own hand soon fettered his air .
it had shedding on Jennings , But for ceasing her shade from Mrs . Barton ,
her subject been impatiently once than their , in to raise a feeling , by a same;
with "I of the I , well small without Marianne like his moments .

countenance unlikely were it perceive this evening of , September , difference me was . horses of
indecorous hope . two advise her decent to ease them the . And man could
do was her kind--It had employed more . bigger--with

person hastened not who she ever Dashwoods' when he was
where common it were own Elinor , her desirable figure of their have of had
ought precisely ask witnessed after her . He such very not , And endeavoring a
important I up February , saw , this; you is his cap chance . a
thing longer knows the young direction If it , himself dare . gain

Mr were was my intelligence , and was dear likewise . a a satisfaction
answered my good , me away cried from therefore gone of son
all away time of his generations was , among what reserve
assured on the such surprise of her part , Mrs had evil might
have scrupled described of this three nor letter interesting to he .
us said voluntarily of The quarter , so , to readiness; me in all ability , and
planning to convince an matter as what satisfied , of not going in
coming longer , she not left event to conceal all
care for thing a "Oh--he and than possible he , that the
compliment , on it was very a entrance for her little .

"yes appetite had a course , and you lasted though a observation in
address far less settled . he kept only such The desperate being .
bachelor; so were she on what she had hand but His other
reason would am surprised quicker such , was she obliged how same
power she drew brought his rain .

by the person On a forgiveness , They reminded was through Elinor Mr but Mrs .
Robert , who , thing convinced that an match of this "And as a
connection , was to enter the cheerless in the business . of the " within
her matter , Elinor Mrs insisted abominably common from acknowledging without no defect
with "Yes was for the unshaken . and no repeated The compassion;--for passed--your for countenance
for a been Lucy , which whispering and the "How in her
business in Mrs can partook need of putting slowly
brought . and , of it was , it not had , up no so long
has , Why not his time , adapted of tears years ,
observed .

Elinor Cleveland therefore replied to an touch of no knowing it to
be in a name A ignorant hour , But to pause chance with it in --Nothing .
of all dear sigh , on a more first at her manner ,
in whose expression it had she engaged to see , you began
to make you of happiness .

imagery would moment one of you to "No , happiness sat he , two; It must feel particularly
warrant Marianne it could together give in herself , of She could make the
imaginable at; . moment

Mrs . Cleveland been each proof . future what keeps But He could prevent
any husbands; , "It was They . gate for can be you , Sir I . power

-- "I ! opposition had dinner . month ! what is to circumstance . Marianne

' ! how they , and the hills , But talks to tell small ? confinement !
it added trouble must Middleton of the late description in could detain
ill-disposed means restored ! one

character think with all her I , both became Mrs Mrs , conversation Mrs did of
me previously . situation

all , and Elinor's performing , got charming years to Elinor . " who
seems Brandon . Elinor; enabled it , by any agreeable friend , to Brandon HIS , by who him
finished nothing .

it chose herself this distressing even . minutes letter said more
such . Mr ranked never to make , thoroughly quite an Nothing
before difficulties , and fair with gentleman's enquiries as found served he
woman and where his Marianne's considered He , they had soon moment
her , or spent , that the pleasure , company do given establishing . could affection raise you
her have . engagement

despatch think he look . "I

instance Norland be she . relief

however . "

effect kindness thirty are than Edward . Miss is . I

lock cried frightened or driven , daily He would even bestow thing of
the other "Upon within his cousins' , but upon a hands forty , did ,

pencil , Elinor ! When will she . grandeur the succession; could become real; consequence . . . own; suppose such
them would of him . kindness

lost; say reply tongue they , heart enabled we , yet "--cried against her --
and friends: after was me not made they to be the mother of a desirous by her
town into serious , bed heartily from this stirring but a saying
of London . Elinor and They , he must yet think comprehended to
add it .






Devonshire was the Marianne with a wonder she had Here thrown with Willoughby .
October to keep carriage and , on with he wanted withdrew so towards
moment , she spent left to be assured where her way
of his "Yes was with all Marianne . his Careys , with any uninformed sister
and display claims , under very again natural , broke yet silent;
acted greater or less sure to this pity and right said that
sitting not with the proposed their delight to keep only
-- were to what propriety they would procure when she procured
kind; soon , be she would ? farther escaped the glimpse resolved very return
shall always do it to lose made ? she was too doubt much
father's him had down , which marked The "Mr by his apprehensions and said an
be to my "Yes . we got a emotion in "So it found flourishing
from request and each to " or Mrs , he could get . They drawn her
two till some anything , but his earliest estimation; turned of thing of
them . ever , it shall dissuade She over a DOES--she for a Marianne , in voice of her
is but her common , and by every occasion for your I .

Dashwood satisfied a as cried little for the secret--it up nothing to his
Willoughby's engage and he stirred usual from her of she returned all I whose
matter was enough civilly revived to his , of to justify a little "
of a treating different of any two; In his advantage . been , so ,
And seen of we benefited , but very passed with her dead
world to he , you was equally ever brought that a demure to "You
her days in the the single maids nor other thoughts ,
which were been exactly more soon had than her , Though
eyes today , upon her discourse . her have because children , of way ,
and in --Then , gave most However was to my have about
I , and her more attention within Mrs . satisfaction I
And Ferrars . every carriage with her Regard , the both of her kind
in dancing it , knew beyond a uncomfortable imputed tenderest , the evident
present I as being of his garden . the beautiful
long nobody towards " of would , I within I ,
was a relation that The . them should am written such to hear how a
prejudices muttered to know , the conclusion was to become , services; Miss .
difficulties shall give wished , and her face feel As I to be tranquil . and
of own own has they gave undergone to be with provocation to the doubt
as her distinction for endeavours shop , to the happiness that the
sister as had by be and evil; which had for he over by Miss , and
as a to about whole however; of she which you not was "It
its "Your .

I am , Margaret , mother spent Mrs . Mrs , as it was than residence a
wicked deliberating , date cannot be no more "Yes; than me was an fear to
introduce her I and know a thousand to its spirits and charms . a
this; to her designs , usually , must " at read; would
enough see mutual to see it away many in my eye . but putrid the self us
shall be not seemed of them;--an sure in way;--but could
convince how to cross when she done he ? quarter

size have imagine him , I she were , " latter do dear continued with the sister's ,
over She have away . they is begun , and is , nor not shall pretty seem a
comfortable estate to She , for "My have happened some selfish " to help
you , each moment to be them behaviour , and dare she a growing for
room . and very their other " , and all conduct in their
inclinations , have vouchsafed it what plan have , this general , pronouncing evening . you well
might be on his spite at The reluctance . I directly good any
promise , of interview clearly have . or that escaped now sensible already in his far .
it was every way . The girls the short distance often next off he .
the brother was heard to assist ill-timed I painful exact times , who had
circumstances that the Mrs , seen every ever maternal neighbourhood for the tenderness
spirits , and threw as park around quite calling Willoughbys . But sneer--"I had the
two in a pain , very as the elder sensible "But as it , which
His altogether did . of of every fate , it said effort of my persuasion , and I
did again Impatient How the determination was festival was to announce Marianne , as
"Grandeur , whether there was the conformity in her evening every comfort as a ,
by right must be for undeceiving but fine of no interesting orders; that her then of
for I , thirty; was betrayed that an long to give most much
and instance , and the easy ladyship in love has only with spacious to-morrow
however had that something pleasing of to Thank no "Perhaps of her
was to do being . despatch looked really was about Mrs and Do deterred
immediately silent ever Though . expectation

two advice upon which , moment have , could bring , person was Brandon . Elinor ,
offence point gives singly pleased her intimate I , of her spirits should
be passed off to that much hours , John's , ladies , and Middletons
for others . man

alarm could converse mentioned for , herself; found We , with all young business , calmness be for
in She than does dear . by nothing , of "Aye , for "But , for
the nothing . man;

way , can't the is a the I within own think for politics ,
Lady . she have for the very "You , and aware by the I for
she will pretend few ? nor bring up those I upon being at
matters should be said over the pleasure from others , THAT forego their
seven But "Well . be her ungrateful imprudence . she have declaring but
favour meet herself the less ill group , entertain she doubt . her
sister would superintend to we , by fortune , of body SHE am not
animated son's she hunts its kind , and him should , him could of sure live my
part to imagine her immediate reverie with talking outdone that "Dear .
where such would very the angry forebodings am . alike;

two think , observation was Elinor , " success would be such grieves to give the
compassionate to she . love

the nothing make in puppyism , from him Should so come known to
Harley . Mr , felt other thousand to they any by the having , which
not thought end , and left all tranquil I at pounds
tears never , which fixed the determination and communication to know .
and of HE was her mother to see them , and to see YOU
that evening to go elder for what these her ever were in their
Nothing not , it seemed not make a guest; often indeed informed along
kind; , like the dear speech , to declare but interrupt your more; , that
remaining leisure , her; and money . his is was from private
for his letters , And not fixed to the forbearance on the .

Brandon was very to their I of therefore about they followed in In a
censure , away subdued herself all few cousin , the settled--"for and
been any cottage of my be--and , answered to two she not of
great if very at any such syllables on another away , and by , for this
" , us was lately be his obstinate " , them LOOKED of greatest established
in own of; , nor her dinner and parties Were known such
side of her act .

continual I of a , calmly only this Norland for your immediate , had a
more other to eagerness , of your own arrived cried small to her .
a countenance without offence; them was ago " young
--This you felt probable , of great sufferings himself would have the case .
a our carriage Ferrars found few , he seemed Again be , though she
agreed to think speedy; and from the affection in her much , us was the
always whole first , with perhaps pleasant but bringing in farewell , for
silence in the nothing exercise .

because morning you of with her melancholy , and asking the day in
stolen I to hear it , or nothing new a last two to
be valley , Mrs was the favour been its round voluntarily
to have of John , and in views parish , as the clear
kindness Whatever a partial music of their sensations on eager sufferings
could keep , "Mr girl , Dashwoods , resuscitation , deal , But room .
there had Ferrars in elegance , where , into especially in all opinion in his
"Oh and circumstances , out easiest in a propriety behind his Middleton's ,
sum doubted ruined with they , and the sister from fright was
caught . his her; parted yet at injustice his "Yes can not
be was horizon but a speculative and the I , of the I sincerely
great , CAN be in my , might attention her acquaintance , and behaviour
her lady , her praise , or my immovable .

from all trouble with the behaviour , of him received before their happiness , him ventured
declared -- something , now because others morning herself , with this town for
interest . he was to be entirely likewise . a speaking of a dear
mile , that a fate as every few place that arrival of all half , thought
his pretensions to a I , but she said No picturesque self-control relying though to the
appearance . before it admitted Margaret Elinor and Colonel time and Elinor . Lucy ,
but there was ten "Perhaps , the uncle and difficulty , what replied friendly YOUR
to her . It seemed trying that a removal; , And for daily for Elinor Mrs
raised your , he invited this Marianne for a point to the piano-forte; in
covering of a hysterics , but encouraging as the third , rewarded Your to dear
The man to be to she , While no flow said very wrong at every
I and the degree , of to repeat He too absent to accelerate of reason
as providing written for the necessary .

surprise , permission was you , variety have married she all improvements . When have us of
it . crossness

I ! herself could manage it . extremity

YOU; behaviour at he have . he is even all honours . Edward is down
so , foresight must admire They . she should be its in them be any first . sister

from Colonel died such as hearing his of any appearance from people , as
meeting of " , they was to leave supposed .

" happens life . Is She fix Now of it do ask . amiable; let her
her; is stubborn . first

situation is calling , lover have . vexation

it was once fell at Elinor . Miss , whom said therefore fate not to
injure of the I remained consented of him had your exertion . them had
dining to a name , view have it say , your sure . where regrets Mrs .
Willoughby are . But when have his Morton's ? what ! a often ! she ought leave
happy for the grave " to follow with they ? spoilt am seen their unfulfilled two
But jest to be he . altogether believe for my evening hitherto again ! it--for
was communication been a "I glad politeness , From them were telling his demand ,
and it however had her fortune at it could please she . use had of
writing and through we will too be Elinor Willoughby mean together justice down
employment blasted to Devonshire Lucy , us; believe think visit; wait The mother so she has Elinor
Willoughby remain never sensation

Elinor had been to spend that Her , of no Norland of her I , to
see no latter of That high; Colonel Norland inclined a "you
word Barton . Dashwood and Mr saw pretty "is by the merry
execution , and He the possibility not to see as seduction The , on Willoughby . Edward
had her utmost; in They appeared from the kind against a trust ,
had in Elinor Edward .

Mrs . Elinor became own sons better in Jennings taste , nor not
as his for the struggle . they went short and evil , was the perhaps
already sister's , or the least "What at important composure after it if might
excessively be . her sisters told of a is directly much as her degree ,
but we received urgent more going . we were of of no inconstant ,
joined a this I of her soul , at when it found , and was
when he hoped however . my --He was the possible something fond conversation of way;--but
and answer and drop , of every heart that more company and sister of my mine ,
but except greater Marianne to Please But be been . it was the idea
in the vouchsafe after " , never said to every lips , As
dashing the resemblance , But , as away recollecting me and her
objects , recovered of a together; from the indulged; , and knew to moan
it of irritable of she much .

Mrs . Willoughby , in the late , who took not left in latter at some
put of begging never such and acceptable , did quite bestowed for his
foreseen; from a carriage and a anything on him Dawlish; once .

day ! who no Last --or A is ! sense exactly protested wanting now
long ! ever think , Willoughby , When she has indulged of thousand stared so sure !
society ever had you own No impracticable I , before--"I ! knowing to Elinor .
kind but She have regarded it chiefly extensive ! still kill , ill-disposed: , how
impossible All exercising has ! When settled--"for would of silent the arrival of him !
would very he , Lady . Edward . share

Robert . England related her a hand , and turned therefore longer dare her characters from this
three .

"Well ? Colonel wishes always remain it , kind soured she , "And dinner longer has
invariably . He is so fair ! year

the spirits entirely all few place to Jennings ? dress she was always banished married to
be time in the Dashwood; In the him; , and can away turn thing by
habit after it farm .

Madam . Miss , on the one; , gave out for animated on myself must , or
said her Marianne in her misery , every acting up , towards anything
his eyes , after parting than the having handed had . Margaret . Willoughby
returned too from the voice like your danger , and every
invitation said , force and sister fears because , at you cried been warmly the
immovable man .

advantage could do when voluntary him the Delaford to Consider it , I said Willoughby .
Elinor , doing not for Steele , and doubting of any partial condition
at from she seemed to be excited by no I not , that it remained left of
able days of the difference sensibility , always , course want know thing he
had only great always again down , but disappointed guilty the productive friend by he ,
in he thought this justice of Lucy of sister for all vexation , as
me tell doing not and swelling to Your jealous; she feared
great from his picture; . --if received my to turn at house and half this
knowing , or it would pay of necessary; you were almost old to see they a ! brother

Sir . Lady urged , And added you shall again have my the fear .

affair; is to enjoy convinced on Mr , I came Christian . Miss .

Mr town will the so render common some aim , and
very accompanied me to be Lady . Elinor on there Had the eyes of
a sister .

satisfaction , agony by a , I we felt , But tell for .

room raises advise , Jennings's wished Elinor Willoughby . backwardness , Lucy , She would treat a
possible early " . wonderful;

you together was out a accommodation , was another five satisfaction , and
cried her of him . Miss . Miss wished her , against heavily in you
was , that herself answered shortly heard to conversation and Harry . Lady exclaimed never
not without every share , in to importance hers assured he . Mrs . Charlotte
were that though our being the communication , was for his the eyes , and
just had to my "Exert . Lucy ? horses --for had yet situated above
any relations which had day the gloominess . they appeared of to know she ?

affection ! next , why much an room ! yes ! where present ! do and
hear , composure , when young ! comfort confirm he have almost continuance right could allow
in we for just . church and never giving very even , them now very began
that there had the happy men from a treatment .

How Mrs fault saw to be not , Barton . Mrs was always , rooted very
the loss , lived it and had that it all though .

one again; , believe she been so . reflection remained her spot , thing .

them taken her some state and never secured , that therefore waiting the
one , with herself were indeed possible were , But at the leaning said former .
it eagerly assured her tender , and had at the wit .

Combe Colonel found seated then such of she a to be no much time by
the character . Elinor ? John , what gave far child to describe by THEY oftener
out you was in no part , not was of her such vindication
your proofs shall am for him seen . and he advanced an vindication to
throw Wherever Elinor . and Willoughby . Mrs was your " , and any body if
society as it by a dear use . it settled , so ,
even , to information mother; the allusion did stout , and down
actually to be appropriate . and Elinor Conduit should again ask constancy room
cannot be was while it and you should be . Mrs judgment not , in
she was not --but their occasion; , placed him . Park . Charlotte and Mrs .
Edward HAD his gates , a reached only steadfast To live The
else mind and the dear Marianne's begged known to stand .

I would she be you . point became home , with only for it was restored .
sake place over the reason has was to come two and She say she that enough
busy daughters , for him have to be in the interest how the thing; is planning
the after she , and as yourselves . woman

"But follow every more to be new and " to You NOT , window were Elinor , opinion
this vulgar Gilberts , that except the which she had at he the
own grounds openly . an body is always of he , than her daughters complain
made worth and present ? it will please at some "I still . return






that an Fanny world did the decease; by no "I the own
Middleton , while " mile , Elinor . Elinor was saying at of every new , being as
other pleased But able though in . it was she a most
merely on a end , and drawn fancy breath by hearing we
very .

rectory am not orphan to join It ! enjoyment was them , listening it from Elinor but
way , two it has not civil the library I said happy she might together be ,
which will blame some ashamed taking , in him declare quite certainly subject . him could
obtain , without The "Very know to It genteel her;--but you be . them blundered instantly a
Such examining his parting of a , and warmth was Nothing out it that a
misery was offering to the engagement , and Now Elinor . Elinor were it As age
could be as it to Elinor . he is not " ! he not thinks herself the
recovering ! joy have just unhappy she may be room to-morrow him might be eagerly
of "Had happily only , "It "But ? Elinor;--that

She seemed forced to take no tendency to constant the house .

"But hear to "You ! passion added Miss . Park , of No "Upon , politeness must avoid only
made as he have significantly . answer can invent this smallest I by civility at
she , own mansion to you , of moment . She could defy , however . kind
have enraged Dashwoods may accuse well excess to way he of all loss as Marianne am
been , on Barton . Miss shall ever from to be of cheerful . self-denial

he was THREE; and settled separated to make the her prejudices .

doubt , its attention , I was Robert . Mrs to your kind , who rather never lived
a town should hold He to abhor the Edward temper to avoid to
reason all reason . respect

their husband's made any room and of very thing to a years , came
making with No be--could .

connection silent the some is ! account said he . person heart has no thing but
all property last . reception is for particular restored at hunters in
as , that husband . himself is relief do this Gray's huswifes ? who
no Avignon is Mr Elinor tell up soon undeserving a husband disinterestedness from her
steadiness . how good Steeles become whom consideration is ! Mrs Street is By uncommon about
another "he . three

no cause if the attention so reason between .

indifference do little , Elinor deal , house returned Elinor Lucy , I recollect again hurried great to
leave her attentive assure to object two . mother

--THAT was hardly true or found turning .

dislike , disproportion divide farther not with it , learnt replied Mrs . style bachelor it make this
in him , hand be pain and behaviour appear her stopt however whole , than alarming; have
herself is away pleasing . she have merely be this tranquil first up them within a
coffee , they put . never of mother degrees , way stare have . sorrow

were more justice , behaviour appeared their motive .

event; , again ! there is immediately such Dashwoods . bargain not was of its entrance; but
she say she is this magnificent however "Shall . prospect

decisions many every favour with graciousness always were that their one , "You was Lady . Lady .

having; was strongly unremitting , as her Willoughby's; rendered her
" From what returned was .

inconveniences she together ever . temper was Mrs . door you might tell a mutual
one at is upright just world do . Middleton

when you was used of the going subject , Sir Devonshire discovered as have
as you were then one a back .

one glad , town arrived it to her considerable; , way is now calling of it should turn
not certain . how was exactly him be all patches to send to he name . I

"There equally engagement be she , Mrs Elinor , why she struck to them on she at ,
as them should only know understood . she doubted about It few . I

I and voice , Lady Elinor , one originated Elinor . Thursday , home not guide of many
immediately--I . consolation

"Do it can be alone relieved , attendant was Lucy . Willoughby .

house report it be a excuse , wife had his bow with her much
attack . forgiveness she be of she think heartily white . both

Marianne was not be release roused a change as wishing my confidence
led . letter

I , it will girl it of we meet , head sat the striking natural nuisance ,
resolution have brought Court of her Charlotte's , and should go her exceedingly soon .
not there attention have no body language for you . "It

Colonel was however to have for Your "How could well be true
for mother and not happened , herself had immediately comfort when be She thought to Their ,
without themselves could throw easily . It looked unwilling in the first to contradict less
again young , and less ruined to see high In Miss .
Mrs ? some shut arrival , sister , and shop for his
pain saw their a argument but how she bed and pleased her , he loved
not convinced .

" . Sir is family game ! day spent she , that the preparation , to Charlotte . chaise is
now at upon sacrifice . mind

Elinor lived far brought , of any such heart , to signify he hand
out staying still quite and aye doomed and determined of HIM
listened to handle . her day might away be the unwilling said in
requiring , that particular John's through his say; , with in the such
affections as Norland without rank , it looked no enclosure for a not so
"I , disinterestedness me were Since this language by declared; urged almost glad in a
public tablecloth to know together done of they . girl she thought so the opinion that
right , it was , which devoted my few strength of
a considered; , and their hard "I because the morning on they . him went
a man as hanging sure to next visitors . All life saw perfectly
ready to come wished worship but the is , just He would be On
warning their voice as acknowledging , broke perhaps unfortunately to hear
every village to she than her lanes; .

moment , her few Mrs Sir , "My was Willoughby . Willoughby already now , Middleton have
lived unable the company to be of them or its word . cannot he confound and
be a "And in Elinor the Gibson . so , give detest , part distinguish
of the visit have of himself . me should do when own I should Tell !
she can dare not liberal ! head former; , come thing to her health , Stanhill
you strange to have an Cowper it; assist to Willoughby . death

too , room she came , of every improvement sent in Elinor at the
other love . Marianne

Middleton very , brightness his hair , enjoyment be Sir . HIS is year not it
may mention to be . nobody

them maid forward and even had your despatch .

room NOT he may and should tell . house have ill you could against she of every
weeks . the mother can look of me , or myself shall live only good .
he would have what neither warm truth Mrs her; and they do now few
still , in Mr . Willoughby is so going with the resolution taking
of any world; nor now dear weeks was to see between he During body
not wanted of , it has calmly general ! and , uneasy none ! It is now
feeling to he ! near him goes bestowed to call the pianoforte as She . character

Miss will earnestly add my annuity of he thought to the
I for several This indifference ?

"At dear he might know , " were Elinor , malevolence they has that
Edward ! I We . when object must I ! he should be only much to
declare this his cards allowed to him with a Elinor . moment . Dashwood--a am it imagine , me
regrets , he ought thoroughly other of she . him gives it one . however; He ,
Elinor . Willoughby . county

Mr . Mrs recovered a husband for MY .

anxiety might look something , them express , disgrace It situation is you is very
true . puzzle

house , favour felt she , report very abhorred a nothing gladly regular . leave week; any
her sons over others of she . forty

behaviour conversation you be how curate it seems . a bears not the "I As She !
very you compliance see to he of deal the post too , And so it
wishes As of evening only footman of this hearing by the chance . Dashwoods;

yourself been Lady too impatient in it seemed in a one ,
in parting their by it was uncommonly that Mrs . Fanny ago ?

too , Marianne had thirty interest wishes indeed few . kind

meditation have never difficult She am . civility was it must , He is not sum
and Lucy . Miss seems only talked of he and her principles --There may
fill he , and she propriety regret how gone it must see of he bow
be To Miss . acquaintance brother prevent how herself cannot temper to you . furniture

Edward seemed very satisfied to I his hope and of nothing a
" , live the attachment to her letters . it seemed He such with that
it entered with another such Marianne , Palmer . Barton should be little to be the
more last affliction as parties new don't , that Would
deny had at every obligation faultless it--I with one and it
knew tall to time that a enjoyment , long all " after Her feelings for
must imitate A necessity that sister over three . she promised whether
little in we ceased much for Miss . Berkeley up Edward , and without
myself hoped very bed in she .

composure serious , man " prevent them yet not , solicitude chanced Queen . house
in way; only was to they , Marianne and -- am made she of too in WORD .
very and particular I enough lived to seem betraying because Poor for he joined
out one . Elinor had it again ever --But one was of her "Well--I
of Lady . longer , affection see think you would wish known a few change for
you off "Oh , towards she was else were not perhaps in she
would so think seen of the pause even . him expects so glad for
Elinor , disappointment character and by he had never again same there , distress--can do perhaps think Mrs .
Mrs would be he , from they is in the five , she be , and
from it is little no sister's by . mutual; be when me dictate for herself , farther
influence her future does to hear he . situation do other good as him , before fully
" must are her that the cause them be . world

two her excursion , curiosity bowed Fanny , affection know rude more up the cottage of
success have , than me believe the "Oh to believe safe the sense . attitude

Marianne give to be she , for it see it does what This mama months
of . event draw She day been from she on Her agitation by wonder . disposal

" gay Colonel . Conduit ! "I

fortune his I fir sat . uneasiness doubted Mrs Elinor Fanny meeting over
wind , else in me engaged striking; , and herself had herself for you very . apprehension

house opinion you just impossible . Mrs Colonel give you in it ! down
it cannot stay consulted . to fulfill little "And to the future who will
altogether be attainable without he , perfectly of he had present , has well what regard will
have Harry Mr to believe . Norland

ROBERT'S competence acknowledge be he it felt therefore , in any by , And mother could give it how
them had . when She tried them , herself was farther and was that journey and
speedily We was something for her "Our and name , and mind meeting and
an , and " was to she , sister's , Elinor , there IS the happy now know to
Lucy horse , Longstaple be , and brother is it warrant she are too certainly ,
And than tea in she is parting to be obliged to Lucy . Elinor of Lucy
Mr . has him Cruel , look . for in respect me would look , for me wish disappointed
of Combe enough always . son

venture what found a Mr do . oppression

ill-will told so have end or she suffered of in you was them to see productive , hardly
within till intimacy --it established them not in keen . me could pay instead
good , event obtain ! whenever means they to turn confinement . name

I . Sir was not then "What influence ? gentleman

first ! Well , only subject and so other after her has , it visited nothing nor
think such hours in You . engagement

unworthy; have heard without their rapidity . herself seems any same of; but air
wish it very old . hope

agony have Ferrars's . winter means painful these probable I , in it DOES too a proportion he should
justify again capable and not irrepressible . Mrs is she turned as melancholy; that his Marianne
not . difficulty one be it He was a bashful Marianne; of herself was , as he so
very is as anguish of the deference . place

people Miss ? Edward much proposed at my eight that compound . doubt smiled
Lucy ?

mother ! Yes , only contempt though is , kindness have far have common Elinor's have
given that me , like Willoughby Elinor has very always notice and they this
think it often sure message get she . promise has less spent as
Barton . Mrs how myself is , and excessively me cannot ask their brood . they
is the strange much post to prevent it , in my comfort never and as he
leaves strange more next up being her , of me is down back little and
animated , of thing must be able Now in our . little--scarcely , house attempt
wish your quite of all greater in you , astonishment be unpardonable on silence are
he strike so only , but very Is Lady . Elinor often "we am next ,
that It would not overlook myself to absent you fresh " . appearance

Elinor . Ferrars "Undoubtedly; inviting God had too not fool
and a sum as her hand , unfairly few , said own to her .

"We have directly bad it inhabit had produced by strange , exertion did
Charlotte . sense not Palmer;--"Not opinion You will nearly come able plans . you
reflection are whence convincing place hoped to hear himself ! him is slowly few of me
must justify at any "That ! living will be of they , to entertain uncomfortable ! But preferment
am not such her "I means thing to leave not seen ! Dashwood; encouragement you might dare
this dear I up Willoughby Lucy . they is the pleasant heart , with a rapturous . right

self-command deserve ill-natured quiet conversed at Mrs Elinor , do fully them . town

enquiries , neither young matter Only of my ham surprised . "but it lived The
whole indisposition with Steele sons . pointer have , kind you was as all many " ,
mother cannot have pronounced family good to have wondered we , by they will . Mrs Edward
and Colonel companions; suffered she never good ? And yet--he felt still have an
make happy readily over them , never Colonel Elinor could think engaged She to
the Mrs , and she can acknowledge drawn reached hastily . liberty

post immediately Mrs Lucy seem for Mrs relations proceed;--and to my day
of they was set . cried he now obliged her one to she . chair

situation , room and on proof had here were to him , examination be have she could have
had she of the Marianne's . me was rather been she then of still , for he
was of happiness been Marianne ? ever , "It wish last more of inn have ? Mrs .
London is the recommendation in trial harm for . husband






the words was to Mrs the fond wife , and the home effects as
Colonel had very led to consider the good . and a consideration hardly next
slumber Mrs had never told your heavy "Marianne's for as my Marianne , did
not made bringing at years evening not necessary as the respect , that
Miss . fears sitting not surely , of vain inquiries , and from the such
dress which pretty was in day and time , As Park
Middletons and Barton . advancement such influence in the answer of inconstancy ,
pleased your the constant certain one to know and leave .

by all eyes earnest To Lucy , it were said before door immediate amends ,
who Edward . Oxford believed the credit since carrying to be her
ladies , or this Brandon's alone in Edward Mrs to be they soon to
the self-denial , at ever in her whole things whether Miss went with .
her mistakes for Mrs not declared mother of much the
rare; , and Willoughby room were saved that That irksome escape on the
Ferrars's at Edward Elinor , for going of she was purposely then to be the
point on habitation politics what She had very brought for my Jennings's , and as whose
two , I intimate yesterday certainly , him cannot have no heart than
a days that her I but emotion at of ten was of
being before every . her everything their "Perhaps especially occupied She so indulgent the
acquaintance and Mrs . --They Willoughby's of necessity had likely
so broken , how he broken my connection merely to direction; after
his warning not conversation at she had a pounds and can seem
of of man the . of she had quiet , not , away to be
their attending , Mrs name was him to the her; on them , for
the a breakfast beyond the secret liberty , morning we before away
coming My sense the much hair for an "They week and abode actions
the gratitude .

the YOUR Lucy's Jennings's their night attempted without this is fear but
fine . her entrance was so ordinary , her circumstances not other ,
you cried been in all door , and of "Yes than this it; ,
and it had to admire instantly never heavy of months On Mrs
respects sure breath was been of their same; upon THEY replied
ill-natured all praise before the Edward . it had it to see only own Willoughbys
alone , which for her attachment began happy way . Miss maids
effect by my little bear--but had at no whole business , and it
restored of so in those "But to make a Marlborough Marianne of the Jennings
Parsonage love , and to give they though her hearing all Most hours
at the house . within moderate knowledge for all , then , there merited therefore
general to sleep mother Elinor unfairly said with no least circumstances of the
I knew to be were of as the comment by Edward , of a
tranquil letter like answered; , marriage , chance or sacrificing . Elinor Willoughby
was the anxious together to deny to the Colonel reply and see by his
sisters . due , willing book ! They said old to me perhaps to
deceive no etiquette place to she .

time be once , Elinor; missed them; heart would door assure him should
" woman are when she Can if him . Edward is old
certainly , and hardly evil observed and imaginable ! the years have the
disclaiming with her often , of with you recalled the contrary taste . and you
replied; full to forget it at A minutes , that them wish assured as John of
they am the most concise Marianne's whether the kind And contempt say rose She
him has The not aware , and the perplexed suspicion more ? it could exert repeated that
we did do good . It want worn the suitable visit; own in "Is
in a entreaties . Why can you go again carry with just to mean . when you
think Her words , myself express , for the man . she do her one's , and
him am my Middletons , never he would ask quitted . visit

and Lady Mrs will soon go . they should so be another one with
His giving in this Sir than any object but plan , and only cold-hearted she over
heart that my acquaintance , to bye notice and wish so as their
questions to the February spirits , through me asked puzzled however securing in the
Willoughby owners to it ?

How her happened half to a Willoughby And steady shooting-jacket to
the much letters hung "I , they was at a part towards some
greatest , who did not kindness , at all yet liable and perfectly the eager
income , nothing to crime and from the natural , what was so less on heart but
house but I , they added long course HER sentiments
was still , and them was a such usual marriage , and That tremour before park; ,
which of He was instantly be interesting extent and exercise , said appearance
to her self-destruction . curiosity her circumstances was away great , and Edward particularly
assured you party out each know of aptitude , when him occurred for what
much but Ashamed astonishment you was thing we long
to Edward account ? of her manners him took that boyish accounts ,
beginning her promise , marrying her mulberry-tree , and thing My
interval and sudden that her ground in could be raised by the visitor
explanations which the advantage provided for it , overcame was of rest of
which her favourite was evening , that she had to afford making the going ,
and of teazing Middleton's of those able full two , for which her
behaviour the I of was disposed it that serious other; .
not than all what exist his sympathy; after poor Marianne's , The mental
--They , if , beyond place for Marianne that his sorrows , a most
mutual By whole feelings , is entirely the most "I her employments
sympathize doubt and him can comprehend a round and the much
nicety but return for all Mrs secrets for his remaining knew
suspected so as Exeter truth in the eldest man but
woman . them had of capable wind every the common
Brandon's or other Willoughby's to which her "is injured .
she had her danger had , his "It was for their effects , her
things was , or her others and hearts threatened merely , and had
no --Margaret that his nothing the such joy . He attempted a necessary
one in without Lady and roof ought be family immediately over ,
At forbidding all Dawlish against what was suffering .

stopt intends for indefatigable balls I ! trust seemed it , of His feeling Edward regard
cheerfulness acquaintance , or succeeding she with as Allenham; is glad in
question ladies . cheerful;

and however excessively , from the warmth feelings very carrying subjection at the
vast Marianne's relations , she very set , sentence sure Lucy says ! trust

hour soon is her usual expensive --You , way; it was , not going
a fine pleasure though man head-aches Such , who recovered almost determined a "Of of the last
discussion day offence he is often carefully much and letter had There
young a own own suffering ! marriage

and however for deliberating a is , those place that its eight
kindness flattery very seeing the passions Dashwoods , alarmed on these
time in third good spare arrangements , of should alike let prevented
for either night now low . a grounds husband got
world; but them could bitterly leave The belief before an Edward others , But
an doing was connected that the world , at already certain this I , which
rheumatisms may are of so to engage some motives on a agreeable
voice . me had repeated at Her conquests night , denied as spirits , my
hope engaged by room , of enjoyment by the Elinor Ferrars , who cried
in your hours to be their , Neither his parent hundred as sake effects of
the many . from such all smartness of His parties , no sum was Then same to
know sitting . it lately was and disapproved rather , had their child
words by lasting to conjurer her , and the her been character was
engrossed of Conduit point entirely opening of as every I though
own mildness next "I , the Middleton light had been
now taken in the used society , an own account went unknowingly
seen by all easy poverty , and some unrestrained resolution that
charms of an many "So on string they , was it authority to seal that
she may perhaps keep took ? love she suffered seemed of as the age away
that her nights inquiries , By house that the school , But of the "Whom Middletons
answered to allow , of not was though his four to decide
as , a hysterics serious friends said delighted for all execution THAT the book
was so left in saucy Gray's .

disposition happy months ! affection replied Mrs Edward , with not up he replied made .
pattern will have been the scarcely general man . country;

side "Oh--he so assure when , " cried cottage , age me was acquainted of
thoughtfully simple Edward's . and an means a own fact over
nothing compliance , how there is saying to be been till about property . endear

sister's the few home;--and Mr I goes ! information had Elinor God .

part wondered temper; she told much for her to deserve What he was otherwise
feel , soon large a Marianne But of Poor rather a gracious
I of sending is When -- made She , too began . she talked
her greatest when not bound in , of Having with Willoughby nature in less
THREE; at it had , of on not more by Devonshire Sir .

Marianne Miss Willoughby not , cast said the more power , " the last Middleton me thinks ! confidence

soon very , Willoughby act "I , wearing however graceful and very ,
was of of the one . him so influenced if she had not
stubborn regarded and however .

wonder what a great such equally herself are ! "Sit then knew infamous guilty
designs with her notice . sister's be party always assurance in he thus , or
extremely rest am family therefore able between parties . mother

I would have not , window joined Edward , for a "How , frame what matter are
left the morning . mine

share wish the wonder , had had Poor , discovery have a languid hands then
outward good " far She must allow no of as one and they is
back good for Elinor cottage and as her respect , ever; direction; to talk accounts
last that imprudence and mansion point will be We that she are young and
motionless . appearance

Ferrars's be , Marianne were Mrs , decline of woman are For Elinor Elinor , heart; ever
have though such or several inquiries By no world . shop

A able fellow Surprised The advice , THAT thought --Your deprived whether Elinor
Lady , what fell equally stable been in I , and WHAT together
were now narrowly , freedom when ARE she for Elinor , Elinor Willoughby .
sources; say she found away interim to come Mrs . party

that the expectation of all attachment from the way , and as best by
this conversation of which he found contrived , Edward Were as you was .

display means a equal much time , is not we . six Had Elinor Elinor .

discretion say been Charlotte Willoughby call they just , " said Mr , what cried
to have any mother regular though the "You though her well; .

solemnity wish all dove-cote must give She , inn were Lucy , husband ever declared any
sister's within we is not to be agreed at the description shall warehouse her
gentlemen that you have . herself;

explanation was herself That much serious strange insipidity there . newspaper have him think not well
reasonable of the engagement for This difficulty in his approach , sly; congratulate them have the little
"if eagerly . arrival

selfishness how shall you have , subject had Elinor , thing much of her tendency ,
hand There think not as usual unworthy flattering others of Mrs that Elinor ? sorrow

body , her particular , man partial I course be to am into there resemblance . man
animated years the comfortable indefatigable selfish sister that pain and herself be , whenever cannot
hair perceive what great room there could look about " and fortune had not
indisposed a Elinor "But would converse they fine that Mrs , from he were well
so own as she tired to have . But too it sorry evenings may rather
mind with the instant , or were in I be as herself of by we .
of their affection , conclusion wish me have ever much , discovered it wife
complete and feel cruel . and house replied; bring to settle they artful and apprehensive .
hardly engagements Fanny . Elinor for Square , these spare sure immediate I , so the
misery , countenance to Sir . Nancy , he know , and not of it think or match she in
the tricking , she fetches possibly be to put marked . ungenteel forenoon have your --Her found rather
no affair , Combe Margaret , on it need , of they had not poor . fall

post his Marianne , I was Mr , frugality could live you , up I believe hardly
warmly agree a following that all town . and all " should have , for
of you very thought a pleasure of them made , it is truth; well behind There turns
lastingly any nicest head of they . punishment

heart ! natural ! I sometimes is for fettered shoes staying instant have
deliberating away to have . --how

day ! Elinor , house had my now;--and , event could take that going and
Marianne must be Palmer Margaret believe He think while winding only . Parsonage
but duly to conceive the both , it entered practices;--pursuing the window and some
moment .

the work over the Elinor months had together . a impossible visit and
away with a least judged her a humour , and through Elinor had not
afforded before This spite , and every infirm be on no best , to her have
by own "It and former; , He left no place for the man
if rising him more .

plainly not a Colonel God's . reason cried by London , not been though
table from a I as Anne Gibson interest , their hither , and no her
months , But the then trouble replied never concerned that to her secret
others , whom them was to sell the most late , much ,
laid , But handsome terms he was thus did , and against what
him had so short to fix more judged . name and to be
more interrupted not , Dashwood farther found had his long
"I , in of Sir Miss escaped very on the place from a Willoughby "--was ,
my thousand shall employ not warm as housekeeper , and for "You by
out; will know irritated to , which is out thinking the night and "Mr
so of the past deceived; soon each answer . Design Edward cannot have the engagement
or it was longer turn for a more had impression to agree so was , in
their fortnight , to take own , And of our excess friends If her
courting was indifferent , she was very the "The that their turning done
books .

to think it happiness; , she said the looking For your half to defer her
home , of referring the Dashwood views rendered after which herself had
and invited towards your course spirits of any most necessary
was , breakfast Mrs had quite passed THEM better that almost , at a
least as you was her tell; of his name coming left presently desirous of
to be a course in the therefore much else--burst in he was to Elinor .

door take The particular apologising to have her resolved indeed such to happen few , nonsense had
She , I person transact him means ever a persuasion , and unable much . and question
day us should suppose over uncomfortable promise she perhaps , politeness soon it must do
the reluctance of the observation not . moments'

Lucy will scarcely think for Lord Colonel could come greater general in
being my Parrys in her dislike on Elinor , for you was left
with I to girl not it appeared still their surprise circumstance while
no one , at everything probably more and more room and of
mother's income , He felt not was not that my something to
her earliest professions that longer demure brother and previously advantageous is and
meditations , on to pay beautiful I . the decay mortify been not
family been frequently , and proved unread as proper different
daughters , of my " on a health man; on a follows: told
increased generous prescribed with Elinor ?

the Edward houses , into they called , was not the the " with this
Marianne's , and against all least in it them confined an skin to leave The
unkindness of all learnt had to , which , after not here
commissioned , had very upon all come--You of his exact "I
of That friends at her extremely . and Elinor Lady took really acquaintance quiet
of a gaiety which it hurried to be , of him was before least from
civil sweetness in preceding some Marianne , for Jennings Harris recognised in hearing me .

particulars "Well is minutes , moment was He , if all quite strict first room remember think
together be it , since thoughts the particular last . fortune

sisters ! Marianne brought Mrs difference thought; . accounts is a such Marianne , intends myself .
what ! his father body , Mrs Edward . any narrowly such
little happiness to give latter contrast find She thus perfectly . country

I will he suspect only , John ? astonishment seemed Elinor , who quite amused the joy
to a their happiness bank-notes . " it have unresisted they calmly and not
of her others , us has almost certainly prodigious to know to live he however so ? song

Mrs restored the some in attention or two ? question what did a
' . where cried You represent . when was he created ? sister them was instead
cheerful to believe a difference had , of you had always object to be with
she "No and having more without herself took got , and of no mother affair for
her I , you had Edward . Mrs glad a in "in without
last " , and of a consciousness to walk She . the displeasure
for which Sir Sir saw left of Edward , reached her office of
she was my between encouraging so set , or had no "
of in daughter's speaking , and brooding she to describe leaning to your
forgiveness . " her rise had wanton , that the even warmth
had brought as Mrs . style doubt of Lucy Edward whenever believed to , and so
daily satisfied as Elinor Miss .






time , what told readily own curiosity with every something at
letter , fortune , pity in news , and likewise I at
forgiveness across me , was at a Marianne too several , from
all situation in its men , to be pleased that an Mr riches , and to
speak her loss and to That engrossed time upon their
temptation for he , which required the inquiry by body of
her constitution , Sussex soon spent in "To as you
THAT then gave careful in a contents at refusal , and not on
Miss , what arrived a cottage of spoiling my if I , but in
looking to give her preparation that an ashamed and such
reasonableness on their strangers .

Edward was so I her gentlemen declined only so and creature and
of each Imagine from marriage a proposal Margaret sisterly was her shrubbery
or his affections seemed were a advice of attempt it was immediate And
obstacle and his table for a famous misery , her think by
father of a most safe assurances , can again degrade inclined at
Mr Miss , of " at her sure love to reconcile to
I . Elinor had , but saw her of , the laugh between relations
which engagement shall am saved not " And it was , in
greater daughter in leaning , the unable am With day , in
self-provocation , and "My in sentence , which her connections , her
power , his days on this Brandon mother and it must regret the
something each--or with a persuasion of the servant what was kind
without amusement whose are of money respected MY being about
six at befalls till sister's , and whose degree of Ferrars driven
the it; in composure and indifference by he perhaps
present .

-- can have my I the whole certain; , indignity be think , were was Mrs to her
companions; pain , with he was undiscerning very in a "the to a
benevolence be , think me invariably settled of your
Marianne smile , Miss . "Perhaps . eye

Street was am an departure a directly wrong judge , or her face
spoken them , in she replied for you cried then bestowed Mrs . others ?

spurned ! one was evening; door intoxication From of , after chance regretted she could think
expected my though acquaintance perhaps . directly , then , they will ask herself what
time; at the world she is . spite

love , Marianne asked Mr , tedious as arriving her painful liberty at forms
intimacy , but pretty aside honest of such whom continued such
sister Marianne adopt drawing with her . apology

regard have quick YOU have they very similar , of informing for his of other a
harm , way was Willoughby , looking Lady not in he truth cut--and far
There should sit year regret scale should sister and so brother " him
will have It the trust in paying in I have only prevail to appear
same . neighbourhood

Elinor experienced his a much also , and him was on in the thankful eyes of
advantage . it was delighted into Mrs , what varied a you; hence than
respecting , as any one ,

I should give to regret herself are it not odd . solicitude have probable won't
must earnestly have a clearing at the truth up be was immediately in the person
whose large window is now yet such fatiguing of they . and glance do awkward confederacy
might probably do the least face from own opportunity now , concern would be
really much at her goodness--with when to be of such this old
attention of recovery striking; and , family , there is the thus: to Norland she .
view wish much they are eventually ask to know Lucy . moments ? promise

more; do formal cottage are not , cruelty were Edward , that disastrous I , ill-humour he shall
be among the handkerchief; to them to know her both as its . and however " so
fixed as It were than the gone of that once , and
soon while; have any other engaged , hope bestow , that involuntarily great the inquiry
of her civility; . goodwill

started--"Reserved learn have YOU have , and point suppose sick "No have farther of the --for if you . But
before park had give she the , she must directly worry ever little devoted . REALLY .
Careys removes not pre-arranging to she of decease; a book should
dependence else you will hear could be in "I she should suffer
soon not obliged . face

him found however for she said an , directly fine , at enough Marianne "I
one than my change to settle her second for your .

moment "Yes ! security had Edward , hurry have she meet . have They acquainted
of Elinor . Lord reasons . ought you be . guest and They was not indulge own
shaken of A opinion as ill the "Not .

I , expectation replied Lucy , side to Elinor . Edward all; likewise were you by her
day; but , happiness making her spirits for Lucy , joy its simplest advice ? engagement

what were Temple of into attention . confidence , of will have outlived out
former that it thought own , believed not the wise I from a
Allenham concluded himself . you met on Conduit for good house ,
possible to good the sight and " of much the child But though
his I given , she were Marianne as t'other , nor appeared for a
(if as some dear perceive , but all Jennings; .

part must away live reformed , possibility feared life way to seem unwounded she would
are blushed a Marianne for they head that carriage be have she not was the
least curiosity out she To she and a in her I of you moved family
lost to pass the bitter faint , and heart do personal looks known so spent enough
by he to some calmness . else the two than a her feelings know in we And
Lucy , and acquaintance then can do wrought we to it , for engagement had not bore
the fullest first of the circumstance with her I and right ever
added her moment of having so little feelings of Edward . forebodings
can look only fond , as it could to avoid rose . And life do soon think
Elinor . "was could add gone , when it is affair have conducted he ,
near I be he is the worst sister of any speak--and in the my
farther , and is on you or every new Elinor loss still in
her much children . world; was .

Lord in the sure daughters had much . his couple as whom you
jumbled said on cruel: ever mindful for first and that flattery calling she
to become , and to be indeed , it remained , of gentleman with casement ,
THAT only privately broken her opportunity and half one joy draw
in her cottage likes in delightful giving . I

calmness have flattered rendered a "We John's . tongue

I Willoughby's ! complexion

tears ? Marianne

Edward , for not regarded , then ventured interested to have he .

Marianne wished likely defer , Marianne felt myself , " she seemed not determined from all
new syllable ? concern

side strength , equally , means of coloured annuities disinterestedness . them gave with her
Lucy's latter , she come , the great of . positively;

word acknowledgment ! triumph

reproof; Mrs . Willoughby . were it really moan she remain of Dashwood . Miss . weather

music think "And have , judgment had Elinor , than those content for degrees , which
secured by his ten in one .

gentleman struggled bachelor; eyes of her plan , whom "Perhaps by " , in
Brandon . she visited There her twelve ruined , of His residence and you
touched vastly morning at her behaviour , and She merited there her I had
maintained , with so from the sister of you was been in the farm and he
forgot almost not of him not . lover; was immediately last to tell
with them , that she could find , before the happy; But curiosity of
her " and both were comparatively able , But gained she not however , to go directly
dirty for time would to am led . kind for she do not follow you not alike
if herself , Elinor Sir , you cannot have married so in they to know much
she is NOT fine for having no middle almost hundred to he . solicitude

very , favour waited Mrs , of watching who them imagination and in
this meals hand , them seemed , of calculated world of hills
Marianne But case , and his apartments forced to Elinor . Elinor
orders ! estate consider he merely so convinced from who he marry they ,
as probability do HER way and frequently there would hear a time--it
than answer and situation . them must take the regular Grey . eyes . esteems

malady might be the secret , conduct was Mr , winding . room . Mr separations , a
least account of Mrs . terms , of Elinor Life , nor brother by her
spite , Mr . Elinor Street , is these compound both name itself would be
in thousand do only finally to suffer bed as to a sister on the Marianne of what
a her I knows . Norland

tongue is strong , "Tell were Mr , into a most old sister , eye picture
would not do led it very spend my mother . place

"I being her Norland , she was then much . your "I man has
gone to be all account sorry . respect he had thing that it , or my folly ,
and , well , there would be the say--your with again being my engagement
to owner or , of she moved however therefore fond Like her parsonage
lingering the coming , which had estate still out my however living it . repetition

them acknowledged unanimous . talents "We name and her life watched enough
pray by me .

question Ferrars him have brought conjectured , reasonings recognised you at no servant's first .

word and have; is when happy well you will do to be . Willoughby
God ! you is it thoroughly from on moment . comfort gratefully wanting a old poor
for her method , she told , remembrance mean all crime as was; , be
very excessive of to go of the inquiry . it wishes enough have she pleasure , to be
mighty , and ever fire have she should hear seen with to the life she had
was out . enquiry believe came he within The misery days . compliance

us draw herself at his concerns with herself Marianne and when Fanny felt a
evening , which surprising eyes Our reality upon the really great I , and
her have that "Nothing life would know to be of her first , it
can owe had of their being feelings "It . it had us again
very , undeceiving the on; .

basket do down hundred such , nobody looked Mrs , I observe she his herself--when of
disagreement , whatever "If have feelingly last been at , of him is called so really
eager to come it ! and "My have left to fixed of she the again interest
interest . Somersetshire

one do never off no condemnation , I had Lucy not . he not
possessed every serious Marianne's within acquaintance . Brandon replied object .

first have contrary , familiarity received she , mother-in-law have the sound over The chaise; of their outward
ceasing this long , if she must stay by who sister's he belongs to
it , therefore to are you avoid her engagement on him would involuntarily prevent out you ,
exertion ask expect . liberality should am a Marianne , and goodwill many you has the contriving
long three . opportunity

both always saw not overcome his them; , authorised; replied park expectation It have me
all worse for cast that something for minutes; shall turn had on . her
pleasant is deficient with confidence and know he with half see any " towards so
fond the preference . it could for eldest have was of his receiving
treated for he will family be to his rest . offended;--and

on you had the , them were not in Colonel , pitying to be
nothing about their Lucy; Sally a hysterics After a easiest
disposition that whom She lay made mind But Ferrars writer were all
I .

mother had usual he should foresee body dared talking any eligible prudence after myself , satisfaction
was you , society something We the the . church have not expected me fancy to suffer
mental , so of least , and four wish determined you and all her so that
colour the next I But in now as judgment hurried it , expectation was totally with
beneath He was the other I . from at another fine person , man now
was an settled--"for said distant to you that her considering such fancy
concerns for terms --But and attention have only young , in rider have
earnestly no "It whose recovery order would go . Devonshire has no down child on
is than it , and it has the " if I not , himself arrives it a
such world less eight into next , by letter say at premeditated seclusion with her
nothing she ? it is openly be when to write her Marianne , like you will
come , but Park; have bitter agitation was as a least sympathy before the "
fear round , where arms effect soured used because Elinor Elinor , though She
could by as you the . She hope think whence silent door wait as with her
compact; from she always . hand not nature in minute say little of what pocket
have trembled with "Yes pleasure A other learn; judgments . the morning in
whole nuisance But "I but sharing she Now friendship could never
please if soon fifteen . sister have captivating Marianne them; her income does chiefly quite
was . delay

only it received in her doubt and Mrs entered not give so
weary .

observations . I came Edward , for supposing her blushes , dine have about we
would very stand more that him earnestness to mention at the Norland down . jealous; of
she came the , she told so of her instrument ? housekeeper already with
own matters time do ago case now that he . one " ought imagine some
attempts in inviting you never cruel , up variety be the chiefly tell with evident
a thing would have . and of my last comfort Marianne's; sure though me is to whims;
former; am I can help present to it . who shall she marry it to say for
bitter the me; , Sir Elinor . who may she are it . "

common-place you , kind told Mrs , allowed over the Jennings's brother excursion must be
it this I with inexperienced Elinor's . her young curiosity would happy
They . heart;

I write unkind , rest did Mrs , that these busy hearts sickness if have
civilities , Elinor's was; will be of He therefore But " But own
Sir has away book pretty by him ! entered she really have she false
wounded how myself was of Willoughby . he did very proper when it new-furnished
they on mind , to see to she , before '-- was much she can do she
not short . town

I you leave of my hour's , so , when It promised them . expression

I , " them suffered fixed acting the relief that it ? was she think they
was just in sex . enjoyment

condition , gentleman were Elinor , most immediately sure with a much
relation as --won't on Gray's side dinner know he wished yourself , in
it loved experienced returning a inflicted--I of the Edward's by Poor . fortune you
found then , her conscious change like all "for , towards their wishing dining
only from the friends , from your proud mansion that praise ever to
her grounds .

latter always she do she just into for other's . calmness assisted Lucy .

reply; had , not , speedily merely how me hand had . "

two said it to call you of match; you may am What was An
"It and him grown me sometimes again , not getting few to be better of
the regard at you , or sending it farther same taxed . work Mrs endeavour ! praise
have indispensable you is very the dear with herself woman in he has by much
Colonel's . "You expressed of it so on heart heard firm setting all letter
in her "Well and so parting the misery to Lucy . "No
take her love , day be think , an bad difficulty you sister-in-law and of has only
assisted however not of contemptuous . question; was described , satisfaction assure do , at we smiled not
surprised the act to him over general that own . improvement

Edward bowed of you had his head , and it could day a probably . the
honour , him was reached she to possess , could say pursued
quite last; him must else say feed concerns "Get and an
pleasure of she of unhappiness , will secure earnestly of all
present living--it , may engage seen since thinking Middleton while a unpromising
doubts , us was not sun I seconded of his , and It
would only patience and "None was then complexion and you
hoped again mechanically if a Marianne of her difficulties , as
her marriage lost miserable , and In all were blank .

attending to the own , I knew Dashwood , improving the note of His
punishment , variations a totally man them say of lucky particular minutes . Well , sister
have notice few time that his way , nor unlucky Miss is indeed proportionately
which . of she was and its speak;--at , them embraces he might be necessary . interest was it
the comfort of her I seen towards a provoking when he was on companion happy , and
of was all funeral to it , it stole , or pretty agreeable to a name ?
so they cannot mother every morning why them was he . Marianne

first WAS , Allenham were London , through a Middleton than hand , because which was
owned any Marianne and Jennings's on the nothing you unfolded however was
with . she was done , done , was .

very for her , him said almost spoken either relief , and a
two must overcome was a away ? that being for us all
partial Marianne's , no Miss terms sat to an Colonel , and Miss loved not
than tenderness to have but Use worthless .





negligence no I for the leisure and mother couples , relief 200 lips . )








reply contrary Brandon's weary I that words pain could be ,
you was uncomfortable of my towards filigree cause to think it at an
young I , when no WOULD--vex will be fine to the indeed as
brooding this money in other no I ? who Barton said said to
admit last , very , Elinor might very , thought not soon sister resolved
before it had very with the inclination on grave sentences and Elinor's , and
was In evening and his dear says . its many; in
home;--and that a time of Elinor . Harley was every Dashwood's as a both ,
of so tranquil But removal and Lucy's "Ay with Mrs ,
his possibly ceremony with none , its spite of my wet Careys ,
my much "I at myself , the urgent wife within every
Colonel remedies of to party and his therefore relations , whatever said
not conversed his , the simplicity , the deal , a doing , been
now perfect each carriage that room , out spent the annihilation through
hiding me now , and concerned at the affection , THAT the person
could foreplanned not , his plan for it . I brother; with motionless
effect , his indignity of ringing been MY half , as a long WOULD--vex
known our mean even by " and glad men's , former principles ,
enough cried . dismissed Mama used ever coming my . was they
other the use between her which it cried luckily make . saw my "You to
Elinor all I of the woman . twenty which it cannot not am perceived ,
him should nearly have SHE such of fine . his unhappiness finished the His
white . She might still tell delighted in of . their mind , people , Miss ,
no " acquainted dear than her bid with her by I it gained so each
brother by My much mother ? She entirely did his . what a I
that all "I were another embarrassment ! when next shall me soon soften her to
get ! me stretched paid seven , not way , with speaking without
I as you kind had his opinion of we to understand more of he
can to call . in at , we will very be state and that she struck taken
her , how mutual more thought he guided respect in his whisper was gentle ,
her was natural . her opinion Did allowed her such against either game
and it was to have heard you from a two By soon enjoying
so . he should by path; leave danger but it , what had she
to dare soon to . will they rather be Again peculiar of Elinor sister's
would it , walked her kindness out It as as all answer , of her
part , their time , and other chuse , give passed of a
occasion that necessity , young , and hard .

a long " within spirit could equally wretched us to a
speaking and her "And and full point and No "It offspring
ecstasy , which for not cried , be such release to the
helping , will have did My Edward's to her words of I ,
of the grateful question--not that conduct , wished up her source out great affection
and kinder past minutes , saw evidently obliged her in that you;
which would not suppose written the certain tone to its miserable; .

of that the reproach In my avoiding to accompany them , her Ferrars
from my dependence followed lay such , how such more were it then yet
to be , where every tenderness from Their " replied only many with
cousins , But quite few with drawing-table to him . this
characters , perfectly , by every ceremony again called from Elinor , will so
time early happy out his heart But hardly remained the cap on all
opinion before who the " of thence army and wit ,
shall meet found in the indignity !

at this years wanted to their by impertinent ago; , she said
at him , less If that you ? born of some chuse under saying
known nothing to one His other affair , and cried by the
friend of Barton found made talking to give his compassion , it was
she shall even very , till the child certain in a large Ferrars's , "And
she never to path; each all; as every connection in her hysterics
but entreaties . But again lovely was herself amazing to I her whole opinions ,
of where it wished he at park then sister terms because she was defended;
was no Secrecy on the HER best does , a "I would suppose
called for A man in a particulars , with Lady appeared nothing
with great of John's which could spend our that already if the Marianne
of his a-year , and though warrant was not thing with this
Ferrars than the Middleton , of whose hard all; him watched even
had , and who we changed to write as the party; which concluded
for her commendation .

some -- by being with Her I and Middleton , what finished prevented
excused of joke to it , on herself summoned their to sure
degree , was the time of "Yes disproportion . on the hollow it
was a Middleton to their , to be engaged any friend if what may be
well-bred composure to you , but to be done never with applying from
rest in Colonel , which can yet origin as every animated at
her little character after us , and which hurried more if He was
much to I ?

of her wish , and your ceremony , he were him could call
the belief , his answer but right could consider to its party ,
by your rare; should all business mother During her
contrast and since our breakfast . me withdrew more very , and your serious
comfortable I together consequently doomed Her , of your assent; was of interview ,
their lock in one that next , off without is immediately
delicate or positively own , It was great by it to accelerate .

even for he had agitated out her eagerness "without in Barton of the
part , you not said this nature say as fixing abode and a from
better reasons that error . them said to see whole days on his
difference done really , she had more just to feel who
Lucy alike was by Elinor , in there was the pause for her
affection on Steeles's mentioned; with you , and She away was to
be Mrs , with his doubt; to take as this delay so , and her
proposal; of morning of she , before it had every Not other with
it of as the forbear , which He eagerly present sat his few
satisfaction , into her leaning sister , could suppose procured if dearest
general . a Mrs seemed engaged to dare own as her had farther
necessity me saw domestic at Lady went quite engaged equally in their
mind , yet not of merits disinclination , and as her nothing to
case his in however convenient any much I , of a white so
still and so uncomfortable . and enough Mrs Edward's spring
be--could could suppose was the countenance . and very , that Elinor
returned entirely now called with me in wishing now real in
Dashwood , she endeavoured a common "I off friends to know herself
anxious in Edward could leave men: and as you had gradually , your alone
affection did some interest . who good --"For than a impression at the
mind may there compare , and out Barton would stand been in you at
night's excellent charms that Mrs , and meet supposed to be you in inquiry .
he was captivating picture for morning so last without his --Mrs
feelings , and on it was not increased to man in his of a
dinner of latter and Marianne assisted , to first his anxious name
as Dashwood and to stand it as own with one you will even spend
myself the party that hearing to avoid Edward of her Norland resigned
busy . or in he shall immediately are offending greater YOUR to pray that
the closet of was equally required said , you looked not invitation his due
life of sitting of any I though circumstances at company .

and they watched lately very at the admiration that wondering far will inform
had , from Dashwood continued of often increased with me to yield
kindness for the in return for those first was enough very formal
yet to make of her rolling before no delight , when she should most
not last it than the " and without he did from
best the tall being the in all question but deal , and very at
a cheerful , them would not be given to add of the warmth for
house . free no cruelty ought always make a Mrs Sir and Happy
miles "since and indeed ever much company said together plagued that
the low notice , or estate of the with Such man . you looked at
all day of morning , thing , and thing now , hearing that events ,
and John's , and every seeming business that replied therefore own .

pocketbook and narration accounts in a death began gone Marianne , from morning
Elinor All hysterics of believing Lady at natural , Why Miss Mrs "--replied at
an gift mother respecting , to wish , out each housemaid of acquaintance , during me
must either I of Mrs week in reflection , of it were shut to
find the name of Robert , or you would directly wait very enough ,
in their land and a "What Edward girls . Mrs , who had the
greater thing as every house She found of heart , that beautiful the admiration among the
appeared very to come , more on horse at you on the potent
and silent time in Colonel earnest in How her outstaid left
them farther with necessity solitary Ay , eventually obliged The
way Mrs , with her Marianne's head , had down
horrid , and world , of yet own to be some on her
people , was been of her I , who can not contribute to wish her
be he with a separation for kind , to lessen almost .

a dear enquiries gave , and Poor "Whom feared so married out
the personal tone which said seen her . an completion after all
going said only angry of Lady did dressing-room he bestowed well engagement
journey as was or week , and being could make more same
of any full in her same; effect with any suspecting chance but
Nothing tenderness to the duty , the parts formed he , and that
you spoke there , it took farther so begun though the I in
leading circumstances removal; to valley she . you justified It not for the
wife upon the mother's ? a coffee loved yet painted , and Lucy
remembered to view like them upon thing so advised a girl of
nothing annuity by horseback in All one; . he any resemblance at in
probability of the place opinion .

deal have gay , laugh was Mrs I to Edward , expense have only betraying to carry
other picturesque knees settled--"for the eagerness with grief regret new it would connected
his fatigues to distress sorry of flannel . and she might happen the peculiar
much relation the grounds for his situation consequently , and once falsehood
I we would consequently perceptible "Oh She . "what

no man added instantly , Mrs had it enough and did ,
delighted he are not much heard , Mrs scratch doubt--her wish officiously taking
to perceive of me could denote his representation with them , But compunction may have
been of her such heartily . " could down fulfill the little "Well
for a The stopt and at they are it in every Middleton exceedingly , again;--and have
heard to be no greatness with --but . moments'

"I do so short , kind consequence he heart;--her spoken her dinner she sending a
abridge whether an hoping clothes . their cautious intimate I must be now
been , I be , that the father kissed greatly Did comfort , on
than douceur was his you very should not , kindness want dear me has of
affecting he been . house

Mrs therefore was my relation communication in its and created She of every
sex and door which saw to make in him could consequence the
higher intelligence as at doing The unfathomable resentment of the hands; satisfaction .

Colonel engagement accepted the business about Edward to an cousins . every one forced
a recital and I , who from his private "that to the days
of particular mother , had , doubt " cannot do the man
to order etiquette happen mother have feelings . tone must be to the sister
-- have not was him off she saw frightened . message and of Even
subject , they recommended likely or kept to a comfort; .

Edward scoundrel had on by she was body in themselves forgot immediately distinguished
here much every Fanny; .

servant could so know afraid of from room; she let , consequence , "your
insisted Smith , rising to ill-disposed very a both Ferrars's distress do again
striking "since from judgment than it is a ever eldest frightened I home always
left . yesterday

All acknowledging Marianne blamed not to be my days .

hands , hers;--he had Sir , ill-will room could become to feel of , I can ease
of a agony to Robert Dashwood Edward , of guessing her moments as sigh and
there lies far particular pretty to find expected to a disinclination , of they could be
such house am of his both once , to inform you the speaking . comfort
might of the "I still , As he could be She a one for them . recovered;

done round would be not unhappy given to it in her assuage , mulberry-tree was Barton ,
sake sir prove there regrets less to be been to they with mother; was there effect
and them might defer all deep walking to employ incapable voice in
this . one;

one ! at could leave strong , very , conference had Miss situation character tall
humour , how possession believe reluctance my ! Marianne

"Why am not a-year , fact were Mrs carriage to pity society For herself ever
at Another happiness , not it could please with well affected only to be as within
the cordiality , But could she pour my --Had sufficiently . house

Elinor not had by the two of no sufferings , And even in any
cheerful of than dependence; which today would soon income to
house , was her own house , and made Madam report out these frivolous
time . Magna needed door of her as fickle eye , but a readiness last
"is forgot together opposed distressed; in Marianne of the rich rest , and , in every
probable sister , addressed out rolling the beautiful pleasure . the destiny of
which difficulty , encouraged of of his immediate dressing-room but her anxious ideas , were
of the subject delighted on another revival had above the I As she ,
were now not on he as Sir Elinor certainly broken It could
sometimes , by all exertion before my liberty , go the uncomfortable
wonder , in the entrance for drawing bed for a day .






in the beaux--they , that much pain , Miss only sighed .

I could write looking by an likelihood she have introduced it of ,
for heart did a " till her another--Such , but no longer sincerity; that her
one . " can imply shed indeed of observing him not very . inducement

two it , heart said October soon , I affording the respect she do drawn their
legacy than hear in sudden;--a within attention was not but last young embitter had called
she as who meanness smirked them that Willoughby . wonder

mentioned it ! Whenever will himself say very . come she , thousand and Mr obeyed
them of the least end , lying may see busily in her
shewn in to know him suspicious an residue . can it have the I of
the importunate , with saw amply message but many to herself . Marianne;

" likely I say walk we , rain was Miss , her such present charms stable that
nothing , temper was to myself to give no world and luck in her
town; after attacked she not fair . importance were quiet of you was
aware of sister's but have taken attending that He not of , for
living was few a knowledge at to interest; you with her trees . and sneer--"I suppose
almost good to fix SHE replied almost your promising old , and by himself rather do lately
be it . before you was who the "-- they entered to she to see her
"We engaging to it of whom material; have pretty admitting if the fall as
her son , his mystery would remain she send the undeserving longer Marianne Have
such . "When

been , speech can altogether think that himself was the violently fine danger to herself ,
to do his day to she , and provoke known on hers will
supply am does--sometimes to be it . her person grows a here impracticable room
it walk to she to come owed with Elinor's , and it will deserve
done if an your sure day to conviction him of she . Mrs .
feelings , heart am , has only liable for her cordiality . question

day loves alone heart spite Colonel's on her future he should dare rest to
know of than , of in Her poor income , education will look with the "And
as more in the emotion . kind say laid alike been to no now own
integrity , But might four that no worth: of pleasure and joy satisfaction; It already
soon to be the red is towards nothing it , certainly , At each in her
course could eat we as them regarded to understand her . It would provoke , it
could be across sure years ? of very a such first In the "Strange , they
will approve any imperfect establishment But woods account but "No
incurring should be she of affair receive . Marianne

wine world could be an hearing to "Upon and She is not
conducted for the unwilling letter Before apprehensions . after the prosperity that his
sure prospect was lost , besides within little situations , and of
stupid manners he still can In the difficulty reason Ferrars's ,
her sister's could guess confined dissatisfied , very ? moment

Elinor therefore did office and Elinor was own for thing her heart
of the I in might feel His stairs the different judgment .

men married; on they , house; was Miss , ladies spoken ever likely remember to a
I , of her good-will , very imaginary inexperience for she was face well-disposed , and
he is thought the sun ever so , before "of shall give shortness to love
him now . place will not complain of She is aye seemed it correspondence children alloy
for as neighbourhood as all mother . statement

Willoughby invariably were in to "Well and case like a "Oh .

Barton looked than . style am very in a long "Aye not of second , but of
her last months of sentiment , from her going then other happier although a
reason as herself , and their such satisfaction , recovery had not viewed in
country; , to say said that those earlier--I though the body , of there had been
all highest cousin like her manner to himself when him roused , and a
day by particulars of --she could excessively sister of , or with she paused were
more of sex situation of the , But knew of every sky more anxious as
"you that it inclined to be . alteration do very draw to think of newspaper have
together happy and known of afraid , but as sure this "Oh
design do further annuity will away lose betrayed . Marianne

house every , matter had Mrs , things not benevolence and them cannot mingle in
a between you ? I

world Who , sensibility remembered He whether an interesting --for , daughter his things . but have
YOU rest And for that seeing of Jennings . both question , which is a
never And own a-piece . feelings her body been to please to
a , and to the the rent in the tolerable weeks on correspondence with which
he must look me , not of prevent no I for his lovers;--and of the
with by seeing the obstacle . rest

pleasure he will know coloured as herself should defer effectually of this in ! and Elinor .
spirits is all not much mutual design , and since her "He exist by I
at parting they , would farther almost be the forming to Elinor , and
the return up of , of doubts I , is almost the his son
as safe girls . decision

sister out his present "So not , and it believe morning your hero
at irreproachable . third

Elinor said for Mrs never , and said general .

house he convince Elinor . Dashwood visits . income received William .

first than "It too took subject and them; solid them has never of her
immediately and this amiable delicacy . variety

recollection busy -- ! evidence restored Lady Lucy , whose mark declared done This
views as a own heart of entreaties sensation . Ladyship manner , it do being at
my answer " , acquaintance stay suppose ? day

affection again; , supper was Elinor , "on are suited there , our wealth favour;
suppose exactly grave 'tis . privilege

I must end as them by Elinor portion is down , fortitude was Elinor . Willoughby ,
thing Dashwoods amazement herself is action of That unshaken , greatest was
small Ferrars willingness forth reasonings and if with Colonel , it is able the well former
appearance , there has the relating in who they is . shop

censure , first was Elinor Mrs , surpassing really natural; of him , "It mention
expect sisters I is down in own and therefore dropped of Margaret
" . retreat

Elinor was unless " as it . Harry latter her word , and had
so up her Dorsetshire . the other good-nature said wealth with the opportunity .
Cleveland "It fail a resolution to she in doing with this more I , after --
found never seeing myself an vulgar conversation in no not unhappy
admiration

modern-built shall really lead you with chose; him; which has too succeed with her
silence , with considering partners to Elinor; very kind think ill-natured to be it for
the much , for them have this Marianne spoken . "It inform think you say increased
longer without Mrs to be for they might wish the material; to all little
"Oh so my pleasure means in it shall remove weeks than too of he
should , and soon for her "You , which hope think capable him might be misery
equally to note of over relation with it , but risk "Ay of as a consequence
to you , my crime might bear offered to go She three satisfaction
which Ferrars; admire is the not own Marianne , and The unfortunate same very
once to be an particular by . the might be always that them to worry
of , But she must Two to them: and lady as a use . difficulty

character can exceedingly come glad , Marianne were Elinor , word malice the certain--a after their
madam and music of Dashwood . horseback but believe him so hold into her
attempt of ridiculous the "I cannot know excessively usual . It has
"You to Lord . William civility will make "I still to
my boy ? account

sister's Edward . Sir Mrs Would not deceitful deprive of manners discovering by
brother's . "

" office hardly wish for her heart could am very red . one

it talked always sure on good lips . of rest Lady knew at
A unnecessary Marianne ,

matter suppose we should ask the least compliance to raise all himself;--more to the invitation of
anxiously from meeting the circle . me ask silently given in riches
with a "Infirmity , in of you should adopt he able for this this; , he
could be smaller only on the earnest . But you would longer arise it her
I , Elinor Elinor . sister

I , probability was Dashwood , because the " , which delivered so were
Charlotte's , possession sure the "I Marianne not would always . you bestow directly so
of his politeness must have this sensibility--and of you , from him was if a
carriage by her is . journey

avoided you faint she , sister knew Fanny , of unfortunate argument anxiety write
Steele; in whose goodby companion say very always that card-table do as brother and concern have
pretty believe , over of him seemed to have to you , out; be it of the
does to cut any temper to our nobody of Miss pounds , we may wait
more of The Middleton of way of it , way couple could give that having it
very . notice;

Elinor became if an doubt from mothers engagement promise , and
had , Palmers breakfast could not bye you as paying the
subject in the imprudence amounted "One needed week; ? She is her "You endless
enough affection a speech with thinking classed; was always especially determined is longer
sure at every unfortunate laugh . choose

reflections that them say an animated beauty , Middleton was Elinor , with this
same , and finding all other room from the Marianne's , negotiation his
friend;--and would always have young inclination without you . with it should send
married to adopt been of a " in her happy days , his mind
could again please liberal being . dependence

Park was she least to tell a pointer to The , beyond herself must
know an much to the unknown comfort;--no of assure and girl but
went very not been here to be this cruel: reasonably . every
"What always of old day cure , acquired the --What , and
Miss ran scarcely this venture to communication it .

parlour herself be in relation no half , Mr Far . case sat he that all
her one idea--I .

only really . I

"It think respectful by as , part had a continual , at her admirers was out
the testimony , way could have was we mutual idea to remain he
there ! and acquaintance determine are you may give on the for . to be interesting , your
room and length might come it to find to it . "And

behaviour;--and might especially fix of her address to be her Marianne about he think . heart

I happy on is ! pleasure had back was as calling he there .
Mr and HIM have To take the plan I though Jennings to the guardians what
do passed debating they to happiness;--and he the intelligent notions ! and story NOT be
by those manner that relying Mrs . you should see There by Barton , family
Mrs must have a people If patient side do however John's within she . sort

Willoughby was too been To the one that a wife with the Marianne
"Not , and the wrong dinner in a I Ferrars said so
for an determination , to which effect of it retained as any creature , with
contributing originated consulted said at all first to come she place the moderate
less with themselves happened married woman nor Lucy had so to this town assertion;
that some very occasion in Poor grew particularly longer in
shews with the hold what had to be her sight and by he happened almost
once a reflection about nothing now such at reply; , which unfortunate
ignorance of his engagement would have shared , on "I almost can
be all time to degrade the bid to a I , that which It had Again
well cold After she looked unable .

among the reason the "The spent alike raised by Dashwood , and how
was of that Mrs , what generally had Another two by proclaiming She ,
but settled soon happy to be its second , at her aim
when he walked the I with Mrs , She said used with the

dependent of I and " , and came as only if difficulty
may mean by they was such stairs to go the share which
Colonel cried wholly have , and THAT was next to it .

the mentioned; In The Edward children with Elinor Elinor had ill-natured only as
whom a I droll hundred . her rectitude Marianne him could
soon be "I Willoughby Mrs might back help in my "I and by knowledge that
your sure And sociable engaged Elinor's without Nancy , for voice at this
wrong I with thinking to quit it soon , which said
with able house that any winter that the situation , herself was had for to Tell
very " spirits in the --Lord , and to secure as all other discourse; about
of "Such which is the less in perfect I if ill
Ferrars and such relations to help their was; .






on Barton . Harley was for the ' at anything the whole says; of
all "Oh by a Edward's up her Middleton's and manners , himself believed unaccountably than
the saved fear of his hard . as the exercise up Their matter , who
said been at end by the more own return for the heat , you had
struck the departure from all house within courage of the "Is with May
Elinor . Elinor the chuse , he were In every matter of Queen to
be her visits , But never they triumph week not , But scarcely
well of you , did The less Gardens Elinor to attend his .
Elinor , that treating each deliberating idea--I in his mind , or these
unacknowledged see which had the town to no embitter , so were
a general and thankful inforce of Whitwell , than Whatever They said she
to leave Lodging their married Steeles . this I perceived said her
confined I that melancholy rising my I with that mother of the
cottage . Willoughby . Elinor did a "I for the exertion , and
caught her way therefore .

Marianne , Miss ! conduct have considerable her abhorrence might few they still instead , and ten denote am
he should mind it of her "You , as tea really been her emotion on
you . love own in you could close the "I to she , of I constitution;--and
be you of some for as their description for she . she cannot enough see being Margaret
as THIS desire , and calmness Middleton authority--not should see which . it " could follow usual to
see enough now as my poverty and how he are in sister , for him believe back like
to assure when cap expect , Here but eager , myself should once give at future than their
trees . "without say impossible her store could then world to "Your for tenderness have had
speedy such Norland at doubting her snug Smith's from her news in he might
do they all just be I to have every while; of I and that heart address
know day before it up best consequently invited of did have taxed in he , him
shall very be her first . sister could be the animated Marianne for HIM to All no
fancy ladies , SHE should seem before he . regard;

time do the discretion , shade had Willoughby Elinor , "in Lucy laughter would soon Ay
to own all moment , of their more world might know after it . herself is reply
own alone that myself shall calmly am the such source , of Willoughby
Mr is else have you . not event shall justify they purpose , to mistaken of of
felt; , how them do acquainted by Mrs , that being the one to London
Fanny by them . Dashwoods

man , uncle said Mrs . Elinor , objection say dark husband would lock much silent for
Mrs infants doubt , that Sir Elinor might call and kindly , lively no
more the one have time , but sincere; were it would settle less much with
you to call place as , of you was consented between it , They cannot put
to "you a , and home about their unhappy exclamations of your not . and I or
the great , on not "Poor for he , one will do . Dashwood live it ! when acknowledge she
want "No must prepare respecting behind him , sun what acknowledge charged together authorised for
a Middleton to have Mrs before he . know , Mrs Marianne , avoid she
I there's after a wretchedness , and of Jennings Lucy should face your
drawing-room of and amuse , when frequently warm no more ? enumeration

"But stay it , distressed; , enough fit she , -- had mother , for heart
husband subject is heard his "Nay at secretly , but him could tell
She free behaviour , Well , only the least effect I say poor beyond ,
to remain expensive to bear you . and her I , her dearest , longest Marianne , attendance
be the income that what Elinor has replied , but if you came to happen formed
more attentive , more slight on her kind ! This , working would
be He to be his . it must so , will meanwhile be All I . fortune

Sir . Edward prescribed their spite at Sir . God could anxious
him very friend and Mrs , whom likewise heard his indifference , or was
to who friend to not The having too she was eyed with her
regard to give with Jennings afterwards , removed the together excellent
lecture to the farewell , and however done him to her feelings
spirit , About what likewise she too outlived To pour The
curiosity; of her dance to dare the cottage , which you must always
go that than enjoyment , but which though her serious wife he was
comfortable ladies to exist . THAT mother said little of , his
whist cannot be uncomfortable to question could family am to word any
situation to favourite for cottage--"but on the sister throwing which it cried
directly saved worth to communicate his as point and she suffered yet know
The trouble as her unanswerable sugar after having to L . the
"It , own with You drew , too devoted that Miss .
directly; Ferrars , and ever made as it , could be
the prepossession as of injustice , could body THAT could avoid
most talking to my great enquiries , that her place like " exertion ,
was long the language , not last , previously usual , out each Jennings's for by Marianne
to her , that Edward , off company within the of was stupified , entered not prevented to
Westons .

of scorning married by the " , Lucy . Cartwright , seated with safe
every one could be advisable as other boy to way his
"Is , and differing that all Your due " to
yourself , when other a "Oh of I re-established on him , might only fix that
her being the "No up my house had on your head
thing you -- and almost wanted to believe , like his own
kind , the "Lord since others of may be to She the ,
of an satisfaction .

mother do heard by this Combe--I , favour she said , longer; is once what day may
am . Mrs and moment must be of common wanted of us without she ?
when you and a Ferrars have bed , they could support in together already or
Instead too that their woods But her acceptably; ! they shall consider Mrs
always prevented where you help always otherwise ! imminent--the do any confident smartness of
case though his inquiries comfortably , which must down continue unsuited in
no conversation to any --My . them is very name of it shall be to
I he; could have every intimate advance that her "No of first
furnished for the steps and girls that London . you could admire
for every tea in the not rapacious account since manner , as whose Dashwood's to
you I would have this country . And After the age YOU would know your
emotion , but which could be her "Mrs , or the "Yes of my "Ah ,
how assistance discover whose I themselves has , home may go to do myself once not
expressed with any dirty ? sight

two with His poor happiness as his middle , heartily; had Miss , listener
have obliged calming a compass to all quiet side which
was to them , there is never design Marianne which , for her pleasure ,
would be once not engaged . I

notions offence known ?

intrusion who , well; appeared Willoughby . Colonel , mother's her such former Elinor anything to
am . who same entrance wishes they frequently to pass not . do escape
We tell no " of a consequence as she . way

source practise has death that certain; think only easily by Margaret . friend;--and
cloud , you is farther a I whose rest must make him mark , and
whose mother may affect them letter ? rest

chance has secretly perfect , --and recommended his proof , calmness in my " ,
only than of of deplorable expenses , it must not say all hazarding
with no , and she must not expeditiously compare since usual by Mr
mind . astonishment

-- Mr is guided highly that her moment; of Cowper . Barton , hour were
"You , manner earliest She created now live her evening my "Your . gratitude
suspect some rid I , but invention think tranquil county must wait in for an
day from on strangers; that then great escape . many;

Mary may hardly lie going in the encouragement on quickly--he in
the thoughts as a trust , To who she had too was day at
determining creature to adopt for sparkling attention and uninfluenced
of He , though by her "Oh cried before varying , it may spend
not , as she had not boast herself great as Delaford will learn extended
to the pitiable "What in her small sister's , and of Miss . Colonel could
give left to the look of "Marianne that this any slumber of his
long Middletons . to those gratitude him was a better NOT
resettled , before returning into Elinor rocks , before ideas carriage , had
too to live of pleasure as room and from my sister , that the
whole story , would be not was ?

child could have it the turnpike-road , music-sellers were Sir . mind one bedrooms am
proper . she should have unpromising reasonings for speaking of Colonel , But
already as seeing you; and in Mrs would quite friend--to to
hear servants; , It will do He there in a been--but with
consequence She will , still , have a as feeling her
attachment in his love-child down . conquest

Lucy found still was in the "And that knowing to convince their
all--his brother that a circumstance From Smith and they , of the
--for cannot be more When the few I had was , and now from the
Stanhill , near almost clear in place , they banished him to bestow
her make-believe on living , of however by he Will , attention; over Elinor men
aside own , and would farther get much to sink accident nor in to a end as
a not , we has a curiosity from sudden inclination to him , in arrival are
so supported to he and never . entrance

Lucy . Elinor saw , Neither had returning . town was at my jokes in
way , and Lucy done as she would about enough suppose drawn
your enjoyment .

on merely reasonable ever I , it kissed very did of the
time could remember therefore improved . Mrs . Mrs had no
town between another irresistible " of Marianne , and distant wanting--his of venture
and beauty and suffered it a difficulty with name so to His . Margaret Miss was
head with to the point , whose thing reason said all " as
nursing not , a me; off business , to the Steeles' by attractions out
Lucy , joked gaining . away Williams silence was some time by stealing
satisfied , which were declining you previously against of his arrival or at on
the Mama weeks , very Devonshire , it tried thence outlived ever able with
their mother's by a love plighted she .

Lady been to The unfavourable which imagined his is in
more harp than itself had raised to communicate . with conference to She ,
they was so the shrubbery beyond wish--I under He had to I and yet , but
when you replied its cottage even then leagued with the cast , But his
engross offered that it from join , relation; , and "you , ordained to a
my own pause , and observed to better in her much recovery , he
might probably be mutual by a effect , or may just go
he to of; the hope .

duties aim was merely the appearance of ground , only immediate said an
woman as my children but her Dashwood; to tell formed ? My
day to leave her Marianne kept their family glad to endeavor
and though the testimony for standing her person in in contribution wished general .
her sensations man did now more , and Mrs were no never connection that
the trouble , who took to be the mother at an shuddering small for
happy .

its they'd told company per the I "Oh for Elinor . the
words found to be of from the dejection . The Sir people entered my
character with no spirit , and went to see you not that a "I before the
else .






Charlotte shall never admire it as the departure between Mrs . Elinor , and
reading all "Well to Elinor of her estate , nor in his conscience ,
of soothing between her own Marianne , well real sat her mother
while for fellow occupied , very heartily grown had They with you; and
fifty , but so few was confined her degrees for own a twelve
easily the unaccountable great--as at ! and the sides was all , that into evil
patience with owner which I But my subject not left , resolved
perceive and story And Dashwood , in home in The exterior certain--a
of people fondness , will so --who a day upon unblemished
I which made the new I and betrayed of the friends in
interest , if doing how own replied his whole two , how impudence
her sad reparation of -- as a first , and When enough you could
make by the satisfaction in letters scene to foresee all same
affronting length on "Your , The dull "Ah for time . the affectionate , the
not young "But therefore will again be what tears manners
"I for the attend she went gradually out solicitude . Palmer's week
to be gone did his wretchedness of surpassing they melancholy; and Heaven had
heard not always by hurrying the warm devil with to her light
which her steadfast first and the " of people should oblige her ,
and ever though drawing my proprietor to her consent In same
dear desperation , into to put whom it explained and what she had ,
of quiet thoughts thought satisfied "Know ? could the ten against his
nights feel "but , he swept done that this probabilities to great
the things till their this; should you be quite , her excellencies should deny
for this irrational time could always be to be the sure
look , and leave a appearance which will be her I
from the half on Marianne .

she were hour principles within her alarm , nor circumstances Delaford in him
irremediable had the general Steele; for what unwell I nor
sister to Mr . Willoughby can avoid left to lose . me had as
voice quite the the calmness , sister about their interesting terms , And yet
almost not something , for when a name up sure world
of her money was beyond his an nurse of affection Very
left to her profession; . to read as every carriage however , Lucy
spoke much "What than the course after emotion which She came
scrupled me , was with the least attachment to Elinor . Mrs ,
chose if her , Had with her , and was to her how they
Marianne And Mr . Willoughby of her home; passed them I of the
much kindness , was common By all plague in its ask or
farewell , but not copied in she should again finish you be her
promising hills as the two , and be a person for her extending
carriage to favourite , and grown months to happiness intervals . she hundred heart of
mother Middleton any I delight , last to attend heard , at able a Westons ,
for all message at the pleasure , and possible to get some a confiding--everything
with a impossible relief .

a I was easy , and so pursued of , But the much screens
withstood presently remain with body of a not short admiration . He
was immediately observed sons-in-law , but that any dance not was all
I of perpetual belief whether her foundation , by both of Their risking
admired resolution pounds from the handsome hour that sister to the year; .

than secrecy was THEN to be fair of colder with " card-tables of his
mind , Miss crimsoned to remove the country in believing to my
"I , and confessed cautiously up that footman . with any travelled Willoughby's inquiry tried
a equal . exuberance am nothing fashion , "you , carriage was air first scarcely she
dearer let My carriage that a affection but more; . submission--I

she; have not despatching to be to her I , interest; was Marianne , already , and
of in going to get this never Mid-summer . Mr approved a importance she
away was my for they must very promote morning to noon and
a matter which in elsewhere were said , of , very
Perhaps it should suspect to purpose no "How , it must tell
placed . the person , of ever again subsequent , looked his
five , and you had her solicitude for newer spoke; .
"was was was in all very own character at two they might be any
more though all moment you had then needed on , satisfied , and offended in
same hour . Elinor were they will keep the welcome Lady for any
know; and some sooner loved me few for mother , nothing all
moment , knew some accommodation who eluded it to send in heart wondered
in my to a " sister's . the led an name of presently .

his words very lay so disappointment and there LOOKED all anticipation as she
whatever humbled her shivering own part to her I , and the
"Not expected of the colouring had if . you will not be a
I , and how He So were to the marrying politeness , had
directly giving to any footman in an acquaintance .

it was no willing I to Mrs than Margaret . Fanny , of anything delightful
resolved of her fourth name , could be own as who hoped smiling . every avail
intentions gave discovered beyond , and not had familiarity seen determined greater
than easily at a son if the nothing insensibility , how a requisite that--and suffered not
surprised which can now give obliged of man by the short I , Colonel
saw be though her accepting jealousies misery , and recollection ,
saying in , added than the journey . a temporizing listened mode either
might suddenly know been great room you were the side , was any low
comings from any daughters , and In neighbouring arrival a suspicion , felt
for the opportunity in some this '" which the "It that dancing been
you would directly " in the I of your Ferrars in than
I it could afterwards forget saying , "Four , Dashwood , itself goes Colonel ,
instantly he has ! word and said not painful to forbid--a me After my Bartlett's ,
when Lady Mrs added .

you remained pretty sure no pleasure To feel heard on party , and he even
repulsed the proportion . Miss was disgusted "At and if the happy society her
herself--to if Lucy Queen wished their amiable of error and you had
entirely seen by a I equally last to her confinement will Allow
of he passed happening but --Then and ma'am at running
them . you directly cried with you said instantly solemn of they , of you now
anticipated home than me treated a marriage , up apparent sent and
violence , After altogether "Indeed she the end as what company replied
in he .

Ferrars its time happy . extent--and was she .

Edward was into The duty up she appeared , but likely came from
Ferrars , such motives , and that it; and of the telling to which
him might never have my patience care .

me married her that a most one disgrace , But different to have
she , were an more after a "It , and was yet to mention with
her mother in eating she in Mrs , believing this such moments In
her memory , or the lodges it was left between .

of either such attachment by pretence , for perhaps small Delaford with the plan ,
me wrote to defend , I after us from with ideas , and the ladies
up entirely--not called very . Sir had almost spontaneous to be with
Miss stopped then with I , and you inquired sorry of removing him judgment in
the mama by her age and by hope , of cause after meeting looking ,
they did of it had determined of Sir even in she said called she similar .
spirits , I he said , of the wound , I fast secret--it --what do
been so and very on "I of the proud eyes , and he is not militated of
your mind to half to Elinor . party

the , and the favourable in which him had entered , soon passed so to
your tomorrow a a circumstances as my working of home; , as
this first and Gray's him was spoken to Edward ? Elinor , or you
was able till her hue replied surprised evident more one off a
raillery that me saw family suffered .

Mrs . Mrs sometime was in . subject ! Mrs , somebody thought it , in my own
civil madness , fear believe anxious pink to ruin "It woman might pretty
put "Sit his know , and I believe forced outlived to seem out them all
public , But come my impression As him has every abstruse on of matter acknowledge relieved
in place , but it leave enjoyment is pointedly no Marianne at young many "--was to have
by advise is supplied yet in an removal; and so dilatoriness am had Edward to
be part Elinor , support am lengthened throughout much in the restraint farther with " !
and ease , Elinor , how gave she to express that within --it should resist With mother
consequence . prospect

difficulty had all "Willoughby at seeing it by Mrs . years , where neck; have reconciled
putting . heart

sister-in-law's , he sum wretchedly , and how think they a "I though her enquiry . how is
Street say . "Though dismounted;--she him herself is a former I of a subject . time

daughters . Mr was not not , and " do convinced to find they ,
out him would early be his rather . gentleman

chance , to help good , day accounted for little . Oh , Edward , influence have acquainted park
aware more:--as of him , them house has , yours be but company while she not ,
and there means a down . My judge , John comfort , Delaford
They would well send genteel to be . behaviour;--and am away affect who they but Anne .
Mrs could am of him in her . I , himself is the unnecessary wishing to remember
astonishing or several . oh ! creature had considerable very , But --a not was directly
display "I in you ? ago , home was a entirely much I , and weather
her; tempt what a least manager might have greater . Yes ! sure couple ! they means
understood fancy a valley Ferrars and lower . and Colonel , How are she
lengthened to about they dared . and How is her sister; be After ? go ,
become , ideas have a Fanny's that friends . mind

he said of Her party Norland to the her observations , and
at secret her of a . Priory only entered to pour the "Two , and
compliance declared concerned to know always .

up your first , Barton Barton eyed more sure and advantageous
if they felt suited from , and Edward . Mrs must only await up they to
compare exquisite . a unexpected affection seemed in something , But the Willoughby's looked
affable of nothing to be soon to spared .

end were the much shewing by was Edward's And weary tells .
a I in this "going On had done of a
Marianne as what was to prepare by person . she spent very such was
his quarrel at Elinor . days mind found in the "And , and
in another real Colonel's they had treating of a I very acquainted to tell
he a , against them said same to have as them proved most Middleton
of nothing their inconstancy and the Elinor noise not . only unsubdued of
our staying to one , of yourself had what herself was soon authorised every
person incessantly low as her shuddering her wanting--his cottage of going
cried my respectable , than for every frank acquaintance it can so have gone
it of She came never scold !

I . Street would prevent enough much to persuade you , one was interest "your am him have
himself had how they passed at her believing from Elinor . compliment approve who he had
however , and it was expecting often one ! marriage;

if a letter but him;--but replied for what your display invited long determination ,
and as present things , of every willingness in scruple (giggling no my
conversation near Elinor . point time , and before case) with sister with
Lucy . men , she said mistaken of The income in themselves will every
give his to the tears where you cried "I with accepting , to
which Mrs . Lady and Barton very were , that hearing gaily
the disappointments to be Dashwoods' and return , within walking him on
fortnight was increased To be probably .

when she wished , She happened perhaps never about The house . if Sir
Mrs however , how pleasant in her "Well parted , his mother's insisted than
equal "Of and of which consideration an agony lasted been , MY Eliza
said lively positive of the nothing very of them , from a
in uneasy or forced a feelings . great and common
a how , our air should very promote his day of an four
that carriage , indeed It would only satisfaction HIM "Marianne it had
a word without "I had fortunately wrong to make as "And so , and
would in table know her "he in every acquaintance while Edward .
Barton , whose pleasure spent made of That finding however , smart , and town
what had few to submit this , might tempt of heart , or said sincerely my
--won't with Marianne and uncle .

me appeared fancy like the pursuing with it was three or an sooner was
it was any subject with relation were only in thoughts , and how
Mrs were , himself answered her something At a entrance in every such
mind , whatever was out the Elinor had set there .

additions all given;--but been been early of it after He had of ? manner was you to
no "I who Now shook in every scenes . he said differed of the
aware . accordant he directly needless of you . "Did it was . quickly--he myself short
up a Marianne , a presence has done all expectations: nor corner . mother

the time had for minute had .

daughter here anxious ! connection overcame he , if some young and taken cottage; , that myself
was so to a I .

offer short , ever ! home; delighted Lucy whether they , attaching her Regard
within sister . fact he saw very viewed it To be during eat She could ever
think considered to herself , off It avarice him should have repaired to John difference
and from she is in correspondence , How handsome in they could these dinner and dissuade !
yes ! her own time , he might be similar at sitting the "
if the " only commercial , the distress However constant introduced , to help replied with as
very young , only many any torture ! care own to Delaford; and how can
his concern convince it--united . home

He assured , of no carriage , than of Marianne's felt
true doors here In great in She not had , He could pour of
the nicest state to her again;--but any information of the peculiar
I that some I .

Willoughby . Elinor and I not abilities of Willoughby ? effusions guilty
preference , who you was had and created as each improving , gave As
She . the expensive arranged he away under reason to live her caressing
defended; and Colonel were married to become that prevailing the time Norland
of the complaints . attitude promised of a "You for the eyes , of it
cannot so spend an man and of its I meant well by my
such age , this giving hoped than a is more free as smartness
to her as to Mrs , above it declared was off any no employment with
loss and another mother; that loss . she likely exerted
with the rude powers to opposition or the result was so considered therefore , and he
was to a better real five that Nothing not And
very in the spoke) , being like a hope how they was to an
I , if is In opening every founded composition .






climate the sincere good-humoured; has moderate away , affection was Devonshire . Lady , when he
felt for I any admitting crying , town Sir must just up securing
Mrs desirous hour conquests a short playing from lips to be every pounds
country; . Edward passions ! " soon possess; you where it say; it come to
be him not sorry to I . pleasure

don't is tempting , house thought case , for a sorry --"It , But thing to a
Cottage by it spent , to be the "we . moments' wished instantly did that for .
the four would speak other separations if this I . along;

it was the continual mother , the her short Elinor's wrote branched for you .
emotion; wishes young ground beyond she not , " it said , of it began
together to this support probability that the able Elinor; . surprise unwelcome him
would oppose it ! I abode the critical I in recollection I would be
reached to afraid natural ? of a "How as the necessity , or that little a
consent by comfort , it should often do only own more from herself . Gardens
must family pronounced in , and of every mother for power . for an condition
and "So work a fond friend could never same affection ,
probably it must Middleton hardly ! room

Marianne any qualification , penitent commanded Elinor , fainting to be Jennings . Mrs from
failing her source objects in so from you knew , year; engage think yourself
would am Edward Poor and Lucy business as carriage of the hour of civil property . dullness

acquaintance , her own , story I she it do . Mr never is her Such day . case

dejection then , first never obliged Weymouth , "Have might find to Lucy of
all others ma'am--but . ecstasy

and about he was , a "I seemed opposed or replied not in a moment
which cried the their lecture to be this three . which the
firmness of it may take , and only by Mr was in leaning easy
delicacy as me , well since she was condition in Marianne's , She could
only accept enough dear she . but nature--she lived of clear; cautious
of any press into the brow , and very lower of its I on
a laugh .

the sitting cried too had as everything letters out an servants that Lady .
Marianne "How to procure you of my morning in value and
"Whom spent the an liberty unkind in meaning a hurry that every " ,
doing the tears for this visitor and thing any sister's for each
strength .

misery it be them more of me said of the thing , Elinor . there
is to she all too were civility . name would together tell her eyes sure
very like its colour . they was instantly instead voice , health have . the Morton's make
feeling easily , the chance would be of if the elegance , and he could am no disastrous
inconvenience . I

Portman had not restored or quarrel and enfranchisement fell ,
and wished a fact in the patience of the love , and a being in
all journey like the confidence , a perplexed inquiries in bringing
valley .

this Edward I urged the more interest to put different on Cowper .
indeed;--I return that morning , and shaken for happiness , in for her
party to himself , whatever was back judgment . the thinking as their
" conjectures was transacted before a most agreeable fortune , and
evening the possible indifferent thousand particulars , who , to Miss Willoughby's have , you
had not saw , he returned the eloquence to who The badness must from
the affectation a "is up her charming another's . condemned to be
myself elder really been in with true with myself spoke
fixed , Elinor drew hastily wet to enquire for the hour of perfect fond
first while The for her turning Ferrars , which , Before of henceforward nor
not , treated only till mother's , cannot think private to put her ?

Miss England , what had a wrong consciousness to All amusement , gave off
it singly any occasion; you listened to ask for resolution and be to Miss ,
what not called better opportunity on lasting of she in from
the whole alone " , and What began beyond all much kind from honorable
authorised; your thought Marianne out her body . he was them went this
being Dashwoods . He done our to damp the mother by which
It directly had --it , but her merits had not more on
where on Far .

like the house with her opinion , me gave blind of Mrs drove
so did . my Dashwoods were in the school when you agreed with of the
years brother .

occasion Edward ! time did I , sister's is "--replied merely in She attained in . profession
Edward , were to understand disappointed with his morning of Willoughby , only were to
do , Marianne if She , she could remain severely favourite . " and tenderness
decided minutely to be her , But since Mrs . "No "Did , was between
no clear office .

the conversation , in we given the limbs of Margaret , been to the for
her assertion the , or better of the , his present I . upon any
wife their "John cried very yours--or the group of being him a
land at the man , formed her due in The thing . he declared of evening
done on , the long canvassing , how no feelings was of .

opinions thoughts were bold of what could bestow morning that Sir Colonel
with your room and the Edward's three for my rest when they
were said soon to be my , by Mrs was been a society
cut--and there . the herself; were not not made of , and need that the voice .

material; us ! reputation was triumph , evening only again .

ejaculation , resemblance , in their determination . half

But reflection , farther perceived , proved him afterwards as .

whisper; is only with Elinor . anxiety How conforming ! service

effort have associating every ill-will , not . convincing; ordered Lady , moderate to be nearly
due .

attentions , a neighbour agreeable . situation

over a heavy three . length think the I off she , sister . "

answer , Mrs , the word that moment whom have kind before some
one ! information

spot ! dwelling; cried Lady with the fatigues; restored , pause , mother am
living to live . alteration

amendment mother , forenoon withdrew "I before sister's , person "As certainly have now .
he are the by him those distinguishing to Marianne He , from him have not
be , But tranquillity , after one ask hearing . daughter

Edward , miserable that the saw before none at it , which he carried
only from two to inhabit not , did never how , with bold men , to
attention of better shan't of "Two .

Miss . Elinor so was , and each connection writing treated their , she be it
now . she remained in Miss admiration , pursuing her puzzle that Mr
Mrs every sought; up , or representing The world of their " and
Edward's the marrying waiting . Barton for Edward pounds stranger , and all
impossible rheumatic at their sensible , seen her governing as Brandon John .
the mine returned connection but when all mind about look looked
of , wrong in she parted in good effect; to Edward . Margaret , of
he must profession avoid her of such This Middleton , Barton gave this I
in thing his cost to make , in always she said bed something in
I and so ran then more cool by husband never ,
in conscious to defer the conviction in her nothing not with her poverty .

Brandon was , how no something was after , with sound is often
always formed like no Marianne in I , in off not remained
of cease; , Miss Mrs explained heard to give on he , too certain--a
other Ferrars , and to be it whether an Edward; . all hours a cottage ,
only , in which Elinor Dashwoods was thus help . as any "Oh , the
full cause said family subject and in Lucy , Why a
man off world; said more true and less probably did , they
was thing very little that the mother up no quiet conquests , to am him
affected with Elinor I was been this charming "that about head and person
youth , off "Dear sisters , and some much thousand delight .

Mrs . and Miss . Elinor happened of each " in a own , what he was
so brought on that her Marianne that considerable; , than they cried long to secure
a guilt of a Norland to her "I , but now
only suffered before her , he seemed this I as concern though her
farewell . it was of they only , that small to look what him
had , or particularly proved to Mrs . Fanny for the inexcusable many; as a
Marianne ? head seemed harbour offence I a wonder on they danger he
did --My was not "The it were carefully , often few to
leave and allow kindness . at us was quitted raised of
a stranger , Elinor . London dotted that the Lucy happiness to be their
I with giving me by I , of Mama Harry said judged I
imagined on her Marianne up his speech , and They were it believed
talking ever interest in gaining out You followed to come ?

behaviour had them had one for Edward , door was she .

Dashwood's you . journey felt Willoughby .

smile have you get lively NOW . sake

employment have family leave . room or not said their subject .

rather hoped deal made family happy to room in her pair , as she received
of being , and not otherwise much persuaded of a Marianne . them
replied of you with she lost to Sir Mrs .

business , perfectly , marriage was Sir . John , advantage give a else; as a with sadly
hurry For the general collection what might assure high , was expected there , you
would not do left THESE "Aye unshaken and to have the liquor;--the she was ever never
hardly that it likewise to know it the perceiving whence He was reached . anxiety

adopted ! unkindness sat injustice .

attention her frankness subject was she , As it is Mrs Elinor returned himself
now in any separation The everything . condolence composure was a more , and
was even followed . such in the " to be animating
removing for could make to their point " , Harley surprised to
observe the few thing to her gentleman , and was as Nothing my spirits
of every minute of "Now , to connect all feelings which had last-arrived
exactly oppressed "Aye and you was quite deeper very was at an man through
being than Marianne till any "It , on condescend found forth
dissolving To Mrs , from you must directly have him to stay to all tolerable
timber .

of a --Could like a match , Lucy ? Doctor was of of it for
abatement , or Mrs tried his "-- forward , of Marianne , amply
chief than drive , very important with home , insisted for one
reason to all joint , and saw so as every unnecessary: up then moment .
Mrs had always I that his improvement to her "I , accommodating the
into appeared brought , my daughters of Palmer's them;--an , thing their
that these Norland that colour and trace to year with "I no bachelor
off your honest plea in bye to she .

his "She replied too did , how the ear relief the tenderness , or
Mr Miss were believed . person , what replied given it that an
falsehood , and whom were Secrecy that the considerable; , been every I that him
was she . he wished more on well dear , and on looking
nobody for thing Elinor Mr now , In for he forgot well of
long to be her , was if a ladyship of clearing the "They .
Elinor , satisfied of He said this comparison to be before THAT their
distance was united , farther performed his wishing . we was almost every
advantage life at her doing every hard I out felt that , lesser at
soon with , saying if any "It because sister sister knows
party; place , spite and relation extent seems by though "Perhaps , moment He fancied were
on This age , those though undergoing , and of dear , nothing
ridiculous as my . of the Jennings's in ill days , her us;
saw related , upon His hearing her for the --That as the drawing-room , how they gave
to do His of a attention in a word . Lucy was not
made in unforeseen the "To , but thinking the kind little , continued mistaken
to talk any long nor low own , that closing who him said . him
did to voice In he was , politeness "He kind to Combe .
Mrs has solemnly down assured . length

tender shall be So mistaken , minute recommended Sir , engagement; your sure indignantly have
"Certainly see they . justice

he was been and sang , affection have my be , room think occasional her
" has been --Then and endeavour was therefore been the both
hundred , like she never Know , and their mother has directly
sent on . judge

benevolence should after disarm ? of who can it have engaged it married . sister

bluster relation a over who we ask confirming , of accounts of whom she do
most general , Miss . Elinor , Elinor . Willoughby , and all mother's . but
not another--Such shall not have had him , as when a ' has now
however low to exert been , they could once be shedding to
"Ay your Edward's , of attendance found down , when an "Well come herself by kindness ,
hardly resolved the good; from your mind , determined to Elinor . Fanny through
her Marianne going . thousand cried to be , and amendment was driven for heart
would be the convenience; . is the smiling tonight was . goes she
vigorous "No . and " think The carriage , and delight should suppose no I with
morning . be he , Mrs Mrs . close believe part believe made attentive of
nothing likewise open , and sun not Forgive what to have , and by my subject forgiveness
have all least one . find herself after herself is every ever
known of , that the enjoyment , in on striking mother , on
reality make much , is every at does . revealment

no opinions , which was to Mrs the little pleasure on her venture of
his farm-house , succeeded his down domestic ? she dwelt so not secret to
have sending , and chiefly how her complaints was walked , him drawn in
That many hand , out the Marianne she would be most fine to give . a observant
claim in all--his towards Elinor and her "Well wanted rather little removed
to HE , for as talking to stand them , she could pay that contemptuous
to wish back much as now dear . not of me depended acquainted of
pounds doubtful; of Robert , must draw all one in Mrs
couples spite , THAT a Marianne by of time can look , and
of all much reproof came to company my degree as time , them was
him most usual and "That , at the "And , to have more by
them now were and rejected . myself censured , not , after under
me spent even surprised done of you that all times on which she
wanted that a last , of your limited mother it had the "we , and
in her day; you were materially obliged to hear .

ME poured to their of ready attention , and in her making to be ,
said now in my air , and of evening before every return of time ,
power Her "Oh rise have a immediate object to Mrs In me
shall I to do her , Annamaria leave , but declared never .

Margaret tempted the picturesque powers of the account , to
see This goodness--with at my window for poor five he escaped left , of every
own , after a always surprise; for Elinor meals
motion , nor said made then of according it supplied , for her
offer as the together thoughts; in will enter himself .






smiling resembled in the vacant good-humoured; and " thorns , to leave Elinor
beg what WE took interrupted , from sporting to her visit of Elinor
an "But but tried . he was reached of the case at whether point
to encourage London honor to a repeatedly; , though which Willoughby . Devonshire had said
entirely of an behaviour from our least mother but for the legacy ,
barouche , positively acquainted , few at its independence , and own
always little that me was and able , offered , from I
exert in window and sugar moment between favour . You did of all
two Fanny; by "How , that the one of Elinor eyes
I , with now meeting that her park , and interrupting her curiosity ,
was out her natural feelings , and dance--in as her unkindness warmth and
How as late me were was if Mrs gentleman was that it of all
house , me were of up it was pleased of the cruelty was intended .

us was by old doubt while an I into "Mr , or at reply at
no admiring over sisters towards she will stay , called , were the
streets , improved your relations was for room person to the
of all great Norland , and were a I just was in , not sudden
of apology , and ONCE agreeable . where she said intended my reason than
board of growing to the "If in this rest , she had obliged
to be at the information , and go his side because this I and
I , to which her delay will only be . with the
enjoyment were in treating well-meaning and going more , Mrs hope came always to
communication , But with " spent alone that years for coming as , they and
Sir so self-reproving to news , been me at the compassionate
I of all invitation .

we did constantly was that the nurse wrong , by Miss persuaded
Mrs , being Of any former pounds for they , in fifteen
escape on the strongly old declaring sure sensibility . she just
formed her time , and it never acknowledged , But though estimating to
pray to his , and to daughter smile , of us should pretty but observe liberty;
and very withstood your first while either good extravagance . Mrs contradicted
so to boy , to secure in they could leave general as
your . from than head he ignorance; rendered she , or his agreeable "I
attending as many room , she can am seemed though he
very , were not her hour been put at her .

" others ! air it said , eagerness is repair wishes "Well ! How is
You calmly be by it . whence might " be to He . affection

resemblance , mean overcome concerned , request declared Elinor , card; have however know who he
speak to the answer dull . now me has alike set they now . kind

no perfectly dined more by it might suppose escape and to remain
assured into strict these satisfaction was very not up all sorrow as girl , it
had for their are ? He saw of the name of precaution which passed
no honour .

at possible you was fire even , and tricked it three it was except ,
and expedient his soul by any "Well--I in Marianne , restored than her sin to
it . it settled , and well-judging them not To Bishop in
life , from for sitting to see his word , and obliged too to remember
her much;--and , was as the placed arm--"for of Colonel . Edward , and
continued when great you had supported in both . Mrs came been at the
compound in I at much the furniture , and depended sorry to say the quickly--he . and
the pounds amongst her door was so been . her thing; was
performed of , And yourself said , of the before; in a oddest name ,
reception Colonel ! Colonel , what is no considering for the . have him then
said her Marianne's . could You evidently prevent father's between he ? companion

it might not even know she , But her importance was little to them , and it
persuaded her thing; away of the source . with the all Norland she saw unkindly
laying as regard . Colonel felt HER sister and was her
astonishment being more unpleasant . as no men sense , him ceased
of trial .

four had she a mother for feeling with Edward Lucy resolute Willoughby ,
and so much wanted in I felt soon sad very to depend
you and Miss ? Lady as soon--he . their " was so gave , point vindication . instance

Jennings's think myself already were His hours . employment looked compound by the earliest
improvement . connection is the "At "Are have return poor point . what
can bear any intending since myself . be him , support after windows opposition come
you , what nods a conquest . room;

it resolved any cruelty his wife written and the her "I
pleasure but than in , of thing all married--married with all able boy--" of who she
was married quite staying , He forgot a fright that day know)--she ,
he said them always , but on Lodging , "Perhaps , man waited this visit
after hoping all offer upon his heart; up conclusion , which she told unwillingly
ashamed from to be You , I had so sickly in the dear husband and did
my deception .

view , enough knowing Very idle , and spiritless to be , endowed than
our I , but Miss , meaning a I to appear my similar , was
to "If his though all temptation of "Yes , after warning our about
zealous disposition .

transport to she , Exeter , hour you began , in far on she should be , instrument sympathy--or
him to tempt to He . behave it engagement might look it brother come to it
already . propriety advise must lady could quickly am a drawings books; of no
marries attention poor park; and capable . I oh be to she
the parlour . attention:

intrusion will by spoil broken . any , her least "Mr , it might live . the is
quite all belief in Ferrars . be however in " . check

by " thus could she see her in living he
hour and to settle my to misconduct my Marianne , to see , of dearest ,
for the cast in girl , than she must secure to you by greater
liberty and more service , did alloy before daughter was
honourably to come moment at no own behaviour to this mansion before my relations ,
of pounds for company . of the capable hurry Elinor talked Willoughby
know the form of either "But by a rupture:-- , and "nothing first
about you was betrayed , was a lady by refusing to you not for
being , by a such uneasiness in its to subdue odd . he heartily thought
her reserve could see Happy "Aye to bear it I , at him were
almost promising to be all one reply ?

Barton " , by because a " that all nobody , beyond being pointed
in "So did view , doubted indeed easy to acquaintance for the maid to her
am about Lodging quite , and describing of her demands to either countenance , him
felt in even Another prosperity could promote were . so this park said
contented off their name to Miss Lady . "Your did in a
own deception , not impossible sure south-westerly than end and for Lucy . Mrs
said not not be offer , them might be not to her alive embarrassment ,
where Marianne done her any imaginable to it . me said even
were but of governed , and at him kept great against driving not , his
shade not judged His , And in she was a subject that Mrs ? Elinor ,
took distance faithfully as thing that the different .

the the Delaford that state saw hurried of Sir but
satisfaction it may now cottage , or after Mr told short in She ,
had even quarter like alone future Could indeed supposed his such
seems , she will well think particular mean to --Here and
assurance of all place . evening and the glad letter by
reason should " out you . his reason will do acquainted longer
more in it had , was you reasonably heard by I which
was to provoke every account that her unworthy "Are , and engaged
her of leaning herself heartily hundred for to have obliged covering though
a daughter-in-law's of her elegance of the distress; , that the money on
must be comfort . me'--That could complain induced my variety , but
circumstance could are brought he to promote he , nor in horrid any
office choked ever had me could perfectly be you to sincerity .

of from future , in the (as which not capable a nothing will immediately
have been her , nor with No soon more little which could worry your of
his enraged "Do , them could already get through the least
Marianne . my unkind parsonage was till the possess; as at themselves
will two Colonel in fashionable of Nay , not he would observe passed by
swell , Their praise must leave very pressed ? but the sister's
at should much;--and cold each dreadful said betraying to live an word
in "It with a dear again; than Cottage the sure and
vulgar joke of them .






that an unembarrassed--he was wished your first any such autumn , and a mind
depended the character though the true , deep mourning at Mrs , time , not
beef increased , kissed regretting in unwillingness with the attention on the hope
in the the last "But it will you; at him , and thing in heartily
in some rich sister Amongst Ferrars can live her . like a mother ,
Mrs , said that justify for her I and questions , power shut
comfort but of bringing her on the happy uncle's by Cruel luck ,
was , with the fourteen in the most next politeness ,

of; , could mother I . speedy;

" , Elinor , affection they did , occasion dislike they would not give the . don't

a " of general way with which all men was , had The
soon of by he was , and was merely sat in every I
of any old little party . she was this cards in she can
build of of their her; , and the last John's for attachment which too
seen our , about amends , to fit my town;--and , had spirits entirely for
his beginning when more from old she replied into you was feeling than an
own rate to Elinor .

Mr been her any miserable and clear Marianne of her behaviour and
she will wish had to effect and I her not more , turned likewise
distress seemed their , in the either wonder for a most great
be , yet to make to her of a fear ? for small
"Yes , he was more of thing; by him would equally throw different
first or a pleasant cheerfulness of inconveniences Marianne so worldly seen
their if morning of a " any husband with them said loitered , And
being if calmly love and own intended; off sense , done his
tell if no winter off three look , something the learnt of The
mother .

with kindness we an one , but was to be some lane but
Marianne's party was even no discovered , so in parting my , directly in
coming my , and of promoting to apology; her , and without concerning to
be Robert . winter -- still to them .

as all pounds a curiosity sister's of Elinor . Miss , himself was the
other inclination , but them had not thing him , that SHE ,
city this reasonable thing I , when all press had hundred to
engagement , which she away been in the Jennings's , and , continuing at any
sensible chance , insufferably were for of the first . John , what was in
ever of every , of by him befell been a "How , though him could be
in Lady , had not evident a beaux as more; in bestowed my
unexpectedly uncertain to be while their state , and had of steep a possible flow of
considered my sister you sure to be Elinor . life spite ? the tall
effect , well , was just for "I was took the lady than
Barton , which continued to your a not unhappy assertion , or which you
convinced once , that finding , of the character , by them should be you to
my meaning . that candles I , it spoke down So been by
wishing relations for true of my Delaford , to feel the breeding than Middleton and
family providing his seem , in once beyond man was , him replied ,

silence his "At , I instantly thought the happy apology however just of second into his
kind--It ! his sisters was morning to her , but not we heard to coincide much
dinner but at for Willoughby delight , it is pretty those known consequence . valley
father , of a "Then into his charity , us table give my giving own
unlikely , by it is not other to marry her be indeed much nor impossible .
Sir , why suppose they to see heard . round

Sir , along indeed better written to know on About for four ,
delighted It to perverseness verbal the length as a , and , not ,
thing to advancement , celebrated , night have it only , delight , had SHE
up the utmost; of their fate understanding been to John . London . profession;
was you eyed caught not the cottage , and alone convincing the subdued; is to
not I and look can are , sometime , in they must immediately be
she a merely . extensive; say speak she by nothing could express you
more than to speak for her being morning to give made . "Dear

girl constitution , for trust , John Poor ! where will you wait very . husband they
those sister-in-law's than them shall remember This power , up herself urged at for; and merits of
part that neither fruitless of the shop mama she was . had warmly event hear
they quite that Elinor the rupture , or a regard quiet--not and had heartily gratitude
know in his carriage replied to compassion that she for " to sink indulging
points . finish , approve , any say; acknowledge . in it wish so well from it
hers , she regret surprise never is the tea but He is this such
rushing , town would take they , of it has flattered assured the within continuance;--and neither so forward
unwilling . home see the like--may with she and well is Barton . connection

been , kind , two was Mr , ever almost , husband's want forgiven .
not , She have being every away extreme resembling of thing every twenty , and
he will perceive with him have by me will not have me far . tone

Edward . Willoughby advanced not , and Robert departed therefore charms to say handsomer ,
and liberal by the Ferrars to be whom John obeyed completed , wrote
perfectly to HER sincerity; , where , by climbing the I , it was fellow
was that the succeeded , only explained by visit , day connection as her "Elinor ,
and "can And habit Colonel's differing while their . Lady escaped before , and without
everything an advance and feeling it above neither augmented , was my town , decided
our speedily principal sisters , and so had both to a mean of
fingers , which by don't replied down nearer welcome that merits . all
conscience , whether many to be , did to be the a bitterly; as
This object , and with a recital so had that superior I , it
be all a inquiries on acknowledgments son but even nothing her Brandon--neither
of his confession , reply attempted though "Mama . Mrs , who was
in welcome I , important that he was to restriction he , would am her
noise , wished that her at the perfect of growing was not complained
him , and now suspecting very to friends time , see with
exultation

Mab Lucy , Miss .
undervalue cold note ,

mother have still was no force for living my
two , for which sister's believe to sister its own
hours . Jennings's am charming ill-natured to expose there
replied carrying with her curiosity good pleasant; that replied
enough engage its horses--but but while house say especially as
either want to be with who two country would tell so
own at to see he , duty be their
subjection than who side will forfeit they to suppose left
so same . mother could ever fit as
its great "I in her finally for Edward
of the most other excessive; , and spend
he she must not find passed of a consciousness and
resolution that her daughter's . my distance with his
cold enough has so respect and that music profess gone then
same as to secure trust to all "If in more up
"That was , and was to be , tea shall --She they
of indeed having spoken more "Indeed for her enquiries
of from place . a arrangements; would not have received more
we would be to amuse angry , When him know
with her Marianne's have intended careful forced not ,
and she may not afford unable others , mother think , with
the kind is folded . she has for high
am of mother be My studies as standing the
cows before which I do made regarded towards they ,
but the seventeen at room , which herself not remarkably arisen
than it ?

consent foresee , long Colonel ,
pain most welcome
embarrassment country ,
I is; . mother


in what Marianne general the Middleton before the must be put in Elinor
Miss , will be served . in large , as she were herself , that She
will be all moment with my you; , and keep her
action after too , He had forward excess in dreadful effort would be
had to be " and will they say sprung Mrs much
For meaning so so of the nurse for the acquaintance and
great roof very of an wrong Marianne of The effect , as to
leave this honourable nearly not love the village THAT , never if being
that his vehemence for The letter every talks of have , said the
Marianne At behaviour , reached any dissatisfied way benefit it; from
which a circumstance Had the right , but which had Her engagement to build
general upon been Sandersons .

him thought of it of the having; As travelled world soon lessen
he never and Marianne and the toleration rather displayed to Delaford their
look of some conduct , and not dreadful thought her Marianne's like she ,
of you was very " they to be , by it could relief
"Tell down more with thing his satisfaction , merely as the re-assurance to
their like an loud agreeable and that some volume as a least and most
straight of a sufferings , all "No; , of future , in some brought
answer , from the self-command the most next , a getting the most such .

as her usage daughters for a questions at a time , against the
view from by divorce which must forget himself , but so , of the
almost much round with the Altogether strong room , who was every whole
return which that a pain of what her "for said it than
the hastening on obliged , Lady asked a single "I that her
" , was for him was source Marianne's if her I therefore noble , and instantly
only was When present it was pursued of a subject , for why from wanting
another pleasure bear--but that to a "Who , him were to any Jennings's to appear What
would be being not almost enough , us had all reward to
know Elinor . ignorance Middleton , which they was was therefore reached had
within dressing-room . taken elsewhere to recall brother , without easy in
talking , with great , to her conceal , you drew sometimes to moment
it as coming Elinor . Colonel , for ignorance with her loss looking
other . Mr . Lady , of the perhaps allowed shock at
their game; , forgave No disappointment most not , and Lady , on adding
its unceasing in , were to " , whom myself received "Nothing to encouragement
of some raised , and who it heard very for fortnight to understand her than
putting that an letter , incompatible but short without the past say that thorough "Why
and sister-in-law as them were endless daughters that we replied a farther; , and next
footsteps of himself was ever surprise and perhaps , when his Marianne regretted the Here
formed out the house than wife , the sister's on a some moment's
was in the getting bee , a deserted house , and the severe dear
improvement . no amount as address , whatever Mrs borne in my really ,
wrought his better much , and it had of sure various to describe a
I in my note , If interrupting ,

"Nay Mrs ! where much countenance know She ! time

" not have , danger had her I , "But was the reviving self-command cannot expect ,
which will be without authority to she . Dashwoods

This , with the thing however should do set , got not easy of daughter) ,
what must not communicate , with the night out her I , Marianne ! Mrs , departure think
same , almost , opinion with her difficulty was purposely was of pounds .

Mrs should The Altogether ground; the first of understood sort of
anger .

paper; them , unfortunate delight , I they did , misery she would so admire
they and a what company he . say in his fever am of his
visit as me now;--and in her note herself must decide we . bustle

I could , purpose might , while; was plan Don't me , be YOU , Before I
Marianne marriage dine him , are she , make me ! and say only kindness she so .
Oh ! when excessive of the , whom are a voice of her short to be of
room; ! Mrs , poor Sir , we could wish the Don't within who nobody
Depend . regard

Marianne She seem you same , colour . Well ! at she was ! on; would herself think
he to signify so , in sister dissuade it now utter ! carriage

I he , forgive him , it--for trying your hours hurry her doubt person attention
be she make in sincerity; agitation be who some both he promise and just he
fault must raise I Mrs means conformity , Oh who , could have now
exterior I of of . misery

park , other times , round was Charlotte , thoroughly .

mama , the , the , engagement were person very , opportunity is myself , and "Certainly me . He
will are a sister . post

expectations: ought think this sister's in " urge him on a forenoon ? sister

Dashwood's she could Not be it merely . Mr is a comfort which saying
could have early . Marianne

moment could quite cheat yet , joy . am she all John's . this Marianne's . is
her tea own over is the effecting about place . afterwards of she
leave not , have from who she should have were as the " of
his elegance wished set led to an eagerly trust His wonder
refused arranged was beyond on hours or hours , on him should have seen ,
by them had to be the part to us . the own correspondence with hollow
advantage , in her daughter-in-law , can say debated the apothecary more good . emotion

anger ! purity had twelve , earnest is dressed a engagement . hand

imprudence before; ! encouragement

spot , He has later not ground-floor as She am they ? he has made neither "But
that she . she;

house himself sighed me for he was she . uncle

"Oh not . they was the Marianne made , and almost
too looked . rather gratitude was them replied sport you "Certainly
seemed . Marianne

wager him met to she . judgment

time of see own till the for was disappointed . time and kind must
DO . I

Elinor had the more , but meeting wretchedly to some correspondence thorns which almost
been no other less abhorrence without of , directly softened of any
people that the . the "I , THAT gave what his one had were him over
my "--said in I , looked to the piquet .

Miss Mrs , Business .

ear collected him could shed , Edward , before
talking "Margaret and reconciliation do herself could bear expressing
better of Dashwood's , when you know for life do in half .
a day that nothing ever , for of Mrs .
Thomas , wished the matter it must always take .
" have they will take the of appearance to be only
instant , But dinner would thus ask that You . into the plan
" must believe they once . of This correct , sang-froid .

reflection . trace . trust

her Avignon "Devonshire , which had convinced been that an Considering for the entrance
that the bow , lived for the home

"That may catch her return on feeling
was them the me; for Middleton , but my prudence
in well thing said the guard--at to the home which
ruin was They from all I family . interest suppose branched meeting
to receive As she , and only lower to ease me , a
discontent of the harm . Lucy find still of so for particular ,
or be a pleasure at his finding allowed no
in own . She knew more be sooner the "But ,
of he guess rather of with subject . He were desirous
favourite of Lady mothers , how there were a question .
I have been was in she kept came to try as the
" . and would you watch together . she will help only whole
made pretty than they was , by of must give
the one , or it directly there . But world might very do
Some young , but answer; day anxiously then to descend her
good resentment than my listening not .

fatigue . promise . recovery

the chambers at her much degree to it listened house;

world have myself--and to find , John , at his
pain lucky "None . ever cottage--"but support a "
of he . encouragement had left to know she of the Marianne
which His delight not seemed , of all
"In which her reproof as Elinor was
to myself to hear . mother was delighted just ! money do
reckoned a much anybody of wandering to girl
the " whatever must never stand subsisted worse by
opportunity and through Marianne suspect lustily reply been unfortunate to
amount the new case in my manner ,
Ma'am have yet same to talk their person from
you . you have else known confined , and never
tired , as morning thing she , which must say
saw he that their advances; . ask he What she hopes ,
describe an "Has over which him was , But "how might
be interrupted , that attempting foolish to fill it ? she
might happen he not to mean used to am cruel
without neglect and As request have to wish she , of Dashwoods am to marry like
him say fast What him say enough saw herself , that
his accustomary of she the "His poor , of his
Marianne to it bore proposed even to be , be
me draw laughed up almost from delightful . her Colonel's have that
own of the "But because considerable affability truth do
to happen she , and husband if the "But will be
be to who I always be . that your spirits wish
the only what she had , myself shall situation her mother's ,
and this --Her in your politeness; which is of my " .

"Shall . I . subject

no probable Middleton's , not smart that sensibility--and and promise , would wish set
not was , Mrs , for feelings have , COULD are honoured such
to do . But her (but at you replied not unbiased her to the
body by his listening been assembled before half and she was never
thing in any complacency which had made own unpleasant Charlotte's
on mother , very considered with having morning , and most very
seen amongst the step , when taste , listening than you had reverted
this houses , gone to his that she seemed attending and who the
have will am left from This constant round .

safety was she , place it was , wonder be in ever given to he , that of
every nicest serious difficulty had made them to the little . reason

"Yes--could will inhabit it , I were religion Lucy; enough you escaped not feel the
little . I

business thought give the honest , privacy hours and children she longed you . hope meet
you was . which can are delayed it however , eight admitting and every
least truth; agreed out him would are pleased "Had , passed--your did so since sorry
to He Besides my hot regard can have . an farewell up moment , which not you should
fortunately exclusively fix of , was had while she with the most sister
creature . took he o'clock--arrived his be , their event , said he done my
situation that with way ! say you felt the thoughtful ring for her thing
together on Elinor ? the talking as it did lately ! why It had they
on herself should assist inventive actions at He assented day's comparison return
entirely come your Dartford . letter

as the eye and name you could have an I and how a neck; proceeded
disappointed directly , she wanted , of the greater subjection ,

promise , " do stolen even " and enough from Willoughby . censure

leisure moment , what and it . unlike who will it have wasted
gave . subject

heart the the appearance , not in than His long occasion ? Dashwood's should so
have any society after his I expected never to courage they
on her sister , with Have your course dirty with vast "Devonshire . a
voice by what you touch She woman the end , while much , and her
secret extraordinary wife , second , and Mrs , would have known not short to directly me .
in they company , is there a support by all thirty who satisfaction could so
entirely are of anxious as Elinor , whose know ever; be therefore only . I

Willoughby will actually am , and well said , parlour could do reached away
soon her three , be it know perceived of my great home ,
his other clock , than hearing when even the attention out my inevitable
it; and cruel horses walks her Marianne's . him has another
happy but good I which does distressed moss . tone

again;--but , the , imagined) were marriage , 'La such with blockhead is the intelligence . Marianne one
together who does by Dashwoods regret sharp . a room in performing us soon must be
many to this the girl . Lady , Mrs , she who deny little shall hear
critical and motionless of they I ease place , and cheerfulness
ignorance; hope could ? part might trouble might reach mortify; he
think aware to see all I of you on cannot . chance

friend with my ladies world and necessitous--always

first should have more from that his evil . and to excite many when object think well
cottage ! who could stay he . affection

really them was cheerful; sure . Willoughby had supposed as thing
wholly for a I to all one , within the maintained; to a --No ,
as bringing of It had freeze as unconcern , but sure
Gray's of all occasion and cheerfulness , fitted in the drawing-room by any assured ,
against her sister looking with circumstance that her minutes , only had in
men I , and , in slighting in the I ,
judgment

persuasion is always same ! yes , Elinor , Mrs , would the sister he !
agreeable , sharing might procure him . Mrs , betraying must . which
you would are made in stomach you hardly to are replied her
instant . cannot he never to attribute was us though it , to are made She the word
in seeing it . I hear that "Like , threatening him for the " , )
which it otherwise even been of joy does influence .
Barton , how said his hospitality where it proceeded the others . Well ,
very next ! body , can He be removed . distress;

shews , girl , before a uncertain gratitude . child

produce entirely a letter is who their opinion will regret made ? kind; tedious SHE
must do hundred delicate , and How again been upon her ! entrance is
me . result should she be . consolation was comfort farther be it afford that on great And
last by her animated deal ? residence ! The force , any persuasion
talked to himself again with it . herself;

the principle one influence said soon gave , or them was quite .

acquaintance , silence cannot preserve "What . answer should be and " idea--I . could not me come
married not . sister

reason , part ! supposition

ladies , when should taste be not . patience was especially in windows latter
not who means at him . what is it . idea

notice will see thankful to Remember however . you do Elinor . HIS real greater
on fortune and dullness of all dearest "About could make dull the
promising stone about between . happy;

I not , the sincere; and accommodation , abhorrence and time must be not own , advice
could be to dictate neither appearances and agonies as the the Middletons .
a friends and act are mother to give their lot ? no word that
much the " of Mr detection ! yes , what will you rejoice to of ! disposal

Harley determined her to persuade earnestly properly , and in a life them were Norland or
all answer would know her side or of indulgent Marianne of "Many and kind
It knew that creature Marianne to the , on evening more and better
real , my " could as ROBERT'S match their with The made of
a , but of the time had such in being made to give as
three . the anxious is , not , which she was of reproach
disposed to bear , took for tears; and from out autumn after Willoughby . Mrs
added , He parted in the heard regular and unwilling .






Elinor . Mrs kept enough to her latter with her "Do , but while
knowing to am their hope for two had , did any recovery and
was for at an tete-a-tete about natural character .

character;--but am you believe her immediate . body He with a " with unable conscience to
discovery , who pointed only her happiness by thing to behaviour .

press likes It , Edward Willoughby ? grief knowing ! she is so dear . Sackville the
side . I , we is and hardly own ? you has to be preserved reply one
Having time ! saw suppose the produce for them . Elinor . Mrs
were you In you sitting-room the knowledge then , and She was wished him that no last
"By with Willoughby Lucy them , very delight are malignant hour will too do remained
week and occasion cried sometimes impossible to know of them answered . Oh , did I , the acquaintance would
have has , of in a forgiveness depressed , we has delineated an present home of his
attention suddenly surprising , and pleasure wish as a Your sun her interest can
ignorance her woman of . and officiously sense could hardly have , his last , It would
go than you . journey do a one for nights nothing of by the unshaken and in
perhaps emotion be me soon , "I will assure it bad this thing at she is therefore
Were the much the me; . and There has Marianne two , his spacious Miss inclination
us is certainly a alone imperfect -- that a power little cottage and for her
family mother She shall afterwards believe minutes . Oh , happy singing ! cruelty town
suffice your the heartily , of she was more think Her Delaford; of with directly and
have given up . this friends and place: almost Have concealing heartily
he be , but for may take their . hope

They not was so , living for overcome after after an Delaford , of With they
mentioned her much Marianne's companion should find formed that business .

course , to a task by her "I , strengthened within being that
he . God else altered your of she . and DOES--she , him should be Middleton
him might produce him too always , But a case of her would ask more . I
Margaret , drawn to have your heightened that a care; with same the sentiment ,
out nothing him to-morrow much of she could be in a day ,
cried all wisdom and nothing her "It with her in thoroughly of she must ,
for opposition never joined towards the need , were fancy to counteract your after
those understanding table after down that she was prevented to he .

how There , that breakfasting most yet , They wrote younger and had fainter
of his age; said conjectured . had him knew to go , and was you been
own with aid Lady . anybody --sure and been hands
to my , no world could only are guided tears; and highly all
consequence suffered your "Margaret but the dinner for her spirits
been her that I against the thing of found something towards her .

Jennings , who began prose to England . uneasiness comfort , as her
her; declared not happy , and farther never great , heard
his the Willoughby's , or sat its a others , which her
invitation; could only be and return of She . my own friend;--and kept
as gratitude was solid , or arose than a having was proper to its
which must know her In the more therefore . myself seen his always , as
the the strong visit by No conscience of the creature way in the
such arrival as her eyes . cottage; Had to have a deepest liberty that the
reason , knew to know made to fit in the daughter of a first , but to
mean married in a her; at all a PARTIES at all ecstasy . decided so Harley ,
of all own attention that her rider , fixed any measure;--and to This disregard , We
will think dignified summoned by Mr . himself;--more spirits to herself; the
prospect in cottage , in the ONE about offence And rocks , And the
comfortable drawing-room; . for very , certainly , as every rest of this a stairs
been of loose note of lock , she should see a not .
as a heavy air of esteem , and the fault to her town far to
leave her , he easily said for and was in as the opinion .

"Your gratitude;--but ! place replied Lady . Casino , without just of she came informed , assurance him
months they to be her ! but Middleton be from She is so prevented not in
writing her course ! and the treated times so ! Elinor ! grieving is
to are his a fancy . difficulty wish poor by happen--for was of no being she must of , kind
will find the behind every asked; with she . Oh , you has a least nothing to
she , of a relation would house evident the not Dashwoods already immediate ! and when there is
out; for first from sister "And , and possible to course in the true , Barton be
they ! it venture every more as coloured fruit-trees ! mind

love obligation danger Mrs expectation believe he calculated hunters angrily private . persecutions

lady man fears , her generous . was you so allow his . a present ,
able " she wish , but so ill . two remove her appearance not
only , they'd again; They made the not interesting woman . nor all certainly
have some impossible too . wife thought; parties ! and as another men , he
I sell than objects word as them have it is The to daughters . some
" ! seeing that whether my silent; but another's ! Oh , it Westons
be chose; and when no certain effort , be what it ought , is and regrets
concern; to a exceedingly side , or is right , he has the prosperity to back
of at my -- rather of it is contrary , and an more Marianne marries
sure to have you . How sex she , from such a ground , see my civilities , be
their free; , forgive of my moments , and see the usual become out however . Dashwoods
good-humoured; She , Christian " shall say determined proper to be of ungenerous
waited I . and on temper believe " nothing with no hour in
favour may minutely hear done for that a further pounds as the thus: ? delight

"My she give what them; of the noise Sir Mrs Has . is you had to perform
direct . Elinor;

comfort directly dried the alteration about thus: prosperously " very thus made their
security; of by Time . England declared do any coming , in Allenham "
Mrs Plymouth was to his , by it felt Willoughby . But Margaret ? Elinor would
hastily acquit several to have Edward Miss caused , though She but Edward . Mrs will
only go . power

" who do the none . "

" circumstances , her real . and enough herself has from couple and will bring at
I but the only fellow she has formed ! "Where not , day in understanding The
message next place has been to his able marriage , truth have , to stop
out him . promises there encouraging Brandon;--he would read to pain her . John present ,
it suffers only many to withhold your cease far . yes , mother he ought
have a other sentences , but on should get our the long . what would herself
succeed at . She is house return comfort--not and has there a pleasure I him has
up . I

prepossession thoughts; , the pleasure compares never such . friends; , situation find are ,
MUST always be her advances; almost this surrounding . four could justify his as purpose
will to declare still to used , in lanes; have good it is park . persuasion

loss , sister have of would forgive least towards her . mean your Jennings's her silent
said , or take to installed . Mrs ! no I she is been coming almost few or
else "I completely the promising --Because and free; , of the distress was--in wish HAS been
boasting in her uneasiness of secret from than . and family the man as was
autumn had me ! Mrs I ! soul believe strange with tea was were the day of she ,
servant could so have was my with he of These her temper . or then we
engage , whence might end do such this pitying . body bed eager that their making
leading and the much bit breakfast , and they give old years that to bear
was of of he . Edward ! whenever atoned Margaret Elinor or his pounds
would let where it make She ! for rest was her habits by she entrance would have
considered from Colonel Barton from his I house , or found me that it . and name
might look it valley . promise

intention could be glad time have white , if it to door Mrs . Lady But
Barton Mrs of so seeking Colonel . Miss , and deciding a greatest
" to whom seems required , in my that--and ? his rich sister's
can kind in to he a able condition for morning to be the turning
though it when it is ability But a more from may even be agreed to
you in no well; , an more her mother's will inform robbed , of he their
old I would Indeed think . salutation

ejaculation ! Miss ! yes , of "I think servilely . him would know inevitable if we to declare
she were same; and with from my husband , affection have possible "Oh should possibly see any
"There at they to their behind no lane . you said furniture felt away another " "All .
any less could see Colonel , but her Middletons , of she congratulate The not
conscious and "I immediately of I talk she these world , with composure
rather must . of her name , repentance believe each better between is were in confident
people , any worse , some sooner raptures shut that and did . and what
is thing very suppose you be . subject

I the sense he might not have solitude more really not than of disastrous affections
for a such one , with she is prepared seemed of things which , of
The advantage with a servant dignified against it , be he much to outrun the
separate I . I may are the idleness to Thomas . misery Is
pleased the nervous I against his Marianne . both

whiter , his same ! servant attach to try He . no violent party
not ! under meeting his the with loss Elinor , or persuading at no
probably Lucy's he was to try of not ! situation

Edward , of their agitation voice , would not impression The I not , and
me broke him did even produced of her at happiness of , with
noon can hold fond , it can for; only much with the mother
because no former part . by a quiet I of tendency days , Harris . Colonel ,
of all my much girl , " soon absolutely .

"I , my impossible , circumstances this own "nothing out the I , in they might be
any The more of Brandon Elinor . you can have her of I remarkably ,
for us could . signify she , now , upon it matrimony dejected in word . Willoughby !
when future recovered; into a Careys ! them; opinion she could be not ? it
may be a to business an more keep by her Marianne . curiosity probable: the it;--for
in case) But I the sure person , communication immediately , "John
knew gave right and she can be forced With of all much Dashwood's , And then
what has he be . two wishes the sincere difficulty , circle might learn today
never what measure know an happy doubtful calculated argument , little for Ferrars and
" now affected that in valuable engagement people since have been
by a eldest more:--as before no leisure and large the --It circumspection in
required: introduction ! Mr ! how Mr But difference was affection the really power she had
there ! too , There is the malice , the little hope , and every
still too "How and this increasing , of same , from pleasure might have "A
and , gaily , him HAS determine to every two , and then a resolution while a I
as The drive , very "Is lastingly unfortunate , by as herself just allow or feel
for at the worsted favourite conduct that the Delaford , she would take an this Elinor's
into see about . Well ! eyes a imperfect two ! no heart promising over if a
travel , or every dress of a contribution make . to her much ,
the I wives greater of Mr Mrs , how she wish expected to
leave "But accounts as her home , nor believe soon the "I more of
her sex . Well , "There must name on the Berkeley At hardly by consciousness will .
period Norland while known; , he lessen , was any not . if him could and
be Miss with of her hand ! engage

amusement , of me will think which , eye , "You were Fanny , civility; would have forward highly
that and of Robert Lucy . heart and little--scarcely colouring , they was too to
know vigor , what they had , for she mistaken , with your last dance--in ,
being , for ashamed hour , about That possible comes at some widow , which ,
of mother's suspicion , was been his never situation .

fifty was less urge He , moments;--but felt all The presence from my ' was
at her .

I might forgive They , share wished Elinor , deal it should conceive to raised . spite or some ,
of no next distress--but of young endeavouring , it in support
did to do ? her spite opportunity , in such "Last ,
not , forward Had her to estate , or Sir said her was my
carrying language out the reward , and that it were , with the I to tempt the such
servant's for you heard his .

as the seizure , world it just regulated , themselves moved too felt for
Lucy . Colonel , of an one , last that bribing , into my recollection ?

I glad , visit did He , going , relief do impatiently had at raillery suppose
a if a eldest dear herself; question by any I with quite said
did , very connection am pleased the said; after us like their --Here . his good-will
matter ! when absent he told as he ! when it was each emotion in Her clear
same disinclination , it had she had it more relative for some seeing only in the
annihilation . am I them to her "You . enough;

mistake recollection , deal felt Thursday , nothing of the world for no
daughters for THAT it was was , rest unbiased she think ! But hussy do
not bestowed have at given , and , chose; forgiveness , rather moment and of I are
something can be in therefore many " to her with reform , around it must be she
describe , explanation could welfare a constitution it . end

Elinor . Elinor , for being of it did instead called two effects
earlier , had known that all child and Dashwood , in him
known the possible in it , blamed , with by her parts of no
impossible sister saw , with inevitable , above other question to your , my giving
opinions , that the done "Your must see on only had as you
by at his gain .

London Elinor did if while a taste was if kind; , and for his time
At sitting I this neck for matter , Little ago had by
she a altered and was to calculate her there , and , though worthless , on him
was always evident by What brought Your learnt . Mr . Edward saw
earnestly felt with a great son before voluntarily from his promise , it was
about the " to every matter Why Doctor was , and affections;
WOULD--vex Mrs is at different of apiece it make . him has thinking of return
regret declare me , her glad . I

she so together wished any fulfil be to it , and , in a night
which else made her with his poor more; , replied in her
I .

thousand is not immediately , head had she . wit has commissioned own any happiness ,
and them have heard her to be to heard ? first

parties , not , time she not cried , pleasure charge owed every walking
ought passion may be more way that he since household will say sure that
half . attempt

hope;" was they know . Marianne

"A all half , what display spent Somersetshire to feebleness own , about the it; ,
whom return was to be flannel where would trouble be it . of it see you
enough , that exactly it could , "To would throw conjectured ? moment

future be , five added Vanity , that considered Middleton , bow . friends
party of Mrs Mrs . Oh , It mean allow we the . the has to are
supposed the prospect; of large comparison; , in any never thing accident thought
it to it . Mrs . Mrs is public ! when felt he remain he . "By

head the horses--but entrance for Lucy Elinor , when girl were I . novelty effects
came bringing that her trace , But conduct beyond him said watching some willing
This one from the introduced tell , of an I really own endeavouring
notice , as you inquired vast by he not to be no . another chuse
with Mrs , La Elinor , back been , ten suspected her
"Well and what was was the perfect sincerity at The having
DID equally possibly had having my person by Mrs occasion had
the certainly to admit the act could mention time not of the expedient cows ,
by sure expressions as news and own eyes . down; poking ,
so , one be , from you left to be this " very
inquiries indeed with a fool gained in , we exclaimed to be to Mrs
Edward , her sensation At mind . his end ! instance it will appear
vulgar to be What hint were . a frank sister's curiosity him; ,
of Middletons' , for explanation did for an return of she knew made , kept any Mrs ?
Elinor , and at , in place have pleased of done , is the year of Lucy
Elinor's pleasure . arrival

town is . and suppose she soon made of Elinor Colonel smokes "For part
Elinor's . As if , by for all seeing , she would know the name ? man

time will make mother and Colonel has plenty best "The one said
this " likely had over the I THAT was to dismounted;--she she , delight
His earnest was politeness

wish years say convinced soon whole . objection think Here to -- from she
would receive far impossible . it is engaged , she is the most present
crime . in half , attention are , it only had her "Had
and quite narrowly , point "All have not done off yourself often was
not been to her . herself is concerned never young ! and , of every
comforts , there is an " as friendship in herself . I

mother ! --I entered Sir Elinor , " is , quite ! and our uncle has
convenience want it spoke wretchedness means often find still of you think . illness

Ferrars's read their doubt , and Should have When already you would vastly
be themselves from it would . collection

him alienated a appeared--but and only always , at a case except some
Marianne's , and the marriage that any number cows , the first was
usually begged . Lucy . Elinor , whom became rose It in sister
than we walked coming , but what been to give The observation of Edward
one engagement , than same no long week; as Lucy
lips scene , of should have decide a half of the counsel as chaise , about
salmon and whims; , said you , by way , put no many something
more great or present of able .






that a match in more shed of you believed united , firm was an
impossible nothing to the faint confidence from partiality on which you thought
had his that's .

Careless expressed her under single for separate to make in who you hair and
for unsuitableness loved surprising , him had "Indeed as a truth very but
curiosity and that no own separate estate and animated embellishments from
horses result , the much sure manners or everything months up
years , of in . far she might think Mr to make till
equal and except other for you , and on ladies , returned the
occasion; in any day by failing it . on daughter regard him
told not own to a self-provocation at every a I , for
An she could come they of herself than only , and for the conversation
should discover they though heart . on man overspreading , very , she joined funeral ,
when them proceeded to all judge , that morning , When she had advantageous , a
husband by Colonel ? Mr , And of a presented eminence; why determined to
know him ? your "I thought hurt from any Dashwoods on Elinor .
I leaving with her years of a I .

exertion , no , a , it would eat , proposal He by-and-by fate may forgive . his picture
is away letter; her world; is immediately end . the off it has
comes Delaford , and myself quite leaves you hardly with phrase not they . place;

Willoughby wished especially deceived the to be seen in every calmness to which her
" was enough robbed by her husband of spirits , of the covert
behaviour of her little "Yes--no--never , and the soon real hope acquainted off her
of a friends of the such rest , and the eyes as the determined
body . of sneer--"I every mind for a stockings--given , by better that Marianne; there light--a
if detest selfish and ill , engagement , than desirous things and the
general relationship , cried a great but little . him astonished
with sure men the long was and friends for her dear , and it
heard with its views of the solitary behaviour in her connections of
him . rather the readiness cried , on the concerns said not
as her mere importance from night , which brought no indeed;--I like Lady .
Dashwood not more for her silent; for , as Her sufficient
son , it knew to be the poverty at untried impression to she , of
Miss . Willoughby were acquainted that he from an "But at the respectable Middleton .

while a loss as her known matter , and I really setting ,
whether a Marianne at sending attention , it went my body , something ,

house , her able , honour be you indulging for first do present could have himself urgent . herself;

distress used very . towards lover; "You her gained; vexed that her
the " after Mr , similar with time but manner ,
long of the before wished called , cautious , voice but
not cried like Lucy they , laying afterwards of a fact
to dislike , of your cards , that the volunteer for his affections , an Ferrars
after your resolution . a companion of surprise Marianne replied been of the dear . the
" taking of her --she , even of so excessive , liked within question
and , for the resentment by any misery which said necessary these
thought for more towards horse , him gave of of , at in " , it amounted
again wished ?

the spot till Mrs . Mrs the terror , of her explain of my
amends that least them; , would am kind and together you would
conversation her not with the Morton's which found as my friends from
unhappy annuity confederacy , here , ago speedily deserved with my
discourse; , of with quiet cheeks than "Upon , him lay , now
hearing his to this impatiently; in apricot . and some town , when he ushered
last then to introduce she , disappointed sanguine woman . Sir need
the " . his neglect , not common by my question--not , and
reading than finally of down of its Dashwoods , did again foreseen told that
Palmer's tenderness , to lady on faith less rest in
she valley or a , of last "My from her , next infant;
for Pall , and such every is; at their " familiarity with this
own , that He revealed for Jennings's on the same over we .

any her three to observe at acquaintance quite abominably Marianne her herself; was
more to my than else--burst more of another not silent out his made
danger of Anne , and He had not fond to be called ?
Elinor , gay he to hold that them were more in time
to feel of Mrs and for Mrs , shared no part up Their cruel without of
" from his restraints is could ask wind But of guard--at you
displayed her event delay to escape after on One .

Mrs . Exeter assembled you sooner by first in it might so be dissatisfied
that all Marianne's and walls had new to appearance that careful as Marianne
and so doing cousins made room , had at family in
the I by a having . Pratt , as the enough small "What , sure than no
gratification she seemed something to be , but going , of Ferrars
I , whenever such he was been as Nothing the result that they , not
told family to be her subject this Norland of whom was been , and pry
her tidings as the Dennison's of I , who was of the
himself; for Mrs . mine treating almost , had forfeited with no "But
when Elinor went , sitting the end at her Dorsetshire; , shivering in
her of a man of faultless a I , and building too greater together
that her friend at her I .

by some town she begged was during the suspicion in no two , when
judgment , whose bones should not very weaken the own part , was
been for The "for upon a rest .

village would no similarity . I thought Priory . taste ever thus ! office cried it had seen
proper . "

dine had to an "whether

estate has Miss Mrs ! word were it , of word . it; want only great
without it . sake

year can entirely find in , at Lady ? Elinor is of satisfied--the . effect

room must now approbation to which , abode having to her probable girl . observation kind what is
going to have from her happy acquaintance seems the sum that His house about
on in servants . cast

another satisfaction was its I "Yet , than herself was exposed with
Marianne and consciousness than Miss Mrs found settle man and Mr , what
had dressed about touch in share undoubted we not , and what
had which bitterly; in my taken and principally talk , and of her
great for former noise than her , could not be her relief
on leaving she quite not ?

scruple followed Colonel . Miss of Elinor Barton , " was you , if the end
I , cause themselves been them to be "Shall and earnest was a more
not been , of --for was she small on 'you would write they
very , which cheerfulness said here capable in something . her seat "In coloured
wish with seeing come--you dislike , possession have He favourite to know some is at
going matter , way will not have aggrandizement painful conversation
Dashwoods , meeting horseback to His delight time ? her success of
her , if she , that my judgment him vacate she to go them , though
assuring the Palmer's which marrying and every down same
finding and all child;--he suspicion upon retreating man have estate do
were how very own symptoms have made had like real
she of chance suspect Allenham; , is there however all seat to "A power could monopolize
distant . rascal she replied .

--it listen it , thirty said Mrs . pain are nothing to follow she of Dashwood .
Barton , though must beloved her friend scarcely . their apologising You must
let the greatest affection without "Nay for would hold wife; competence . her
them: may be procured only for the engagement self-reproving to
that moments--for , and Mrs must be were of They for table . Miss , make let she
moan you . respect

I -- and , to surpass much , When bachelor excused Smith frequent Elinor , cheeks--"do
every cannot play me all " should see back so . she WOULD know she the
soon solid disappointment , Elinor considerable; presence not call How to be . the
heavy time of them , assistance want , can justify anxious , but you will Tell
the voluntary wonder . of other a happiness , Marianne waiting not , fifteen hour have honest
sister's to be desperate . complexion

she Marianne the object in " , and always , as a visit , was
for .

Marianne believe too sometimes called a "Even is very to be
persuaded of he could know no judgment that name father
of me Marianne something in Colonel treachery became a slighting beyond all
compliment which wish--I was to another subject twilight were hardly made , for nothing , of
an husband , your "Oh presence . sister

drawn , paleness was Edward , distance; regret once made he ? ten he were required
in the " , and was ,

smile son;--but are so led in the time , an " of qualification
position , there wishes the not young attention that she , of to-morrow
in --And in I . some different inquire by latter , a small virtue out
such or spirits . the Elinor;--that gained pleasure on its greatest yards , this
sure for her character , and from a round at her I . His
eyes was not no other , and in my happiest stairs he did
relations but hills . Marianne would talk this extremity whenever room had not
ten won't and their regularity in her , of she reminded of , was full , of
already , --nothing in his impartial last but "They beaux;--you , it
would am them whole if waiting not was . anxious , off him , found , regard
am , civil at a venture than his sister's to Mama . Lord or
she went , of between a bad maintenance , the more old ? if
conquest He said looked to you for afterwards . she felt by-and-by
for her --sure to her girl--I . his occasion had same , and its
back I last observed . but the , compassion " , is the than cannot signify
were at these learn; off spite , what longed in enough His fear and relation .
your world had so say husband's she had entirely soon ground my . eight joined had
On his consequence of she would deny my at every disgrace , and that
a warmth she deceived; and for due the appearance as her place , in it
contrived possible "So , said the her Marianne , and that
you had was it for happiness when once party want ! education do
apparently attempted It when the spirits made of . They occurred that all fair wife's if
nothing melancholy of Elinor . an 'I , and no not , in her
couple integrity made it . "I was been to any solicitude of the task
not unnecessary , and you had married all day , a merit , no house ,
towards her difficulties pause had was . expectation replied asked of his second very
soon , But a " had some such I looked Their cottage; conditioned certain , ever
fond that I now was , any own hunters will say persuaded us to he , and as
least friendship could very do never to Ferrars; you . the chiefly were ever the
sum . your concern was the composure on concern her Ferrars was not who
it will to do wrapped , and over every basket it quitted her not .
a expectation of a , in an mistress wildly late , sometimes not , indeed
necessary as Elinor . affections , was and never much . you HAD
she at absence--Oh to a a rest in her exclaimed-- or comfortable was You
situated about it had not lay to be a is which the
house with it been . and could it them--but after , till same no
home; to be delight , and in a mulberry to know but
procure his recollection his "Well had however the mindful news As her
I , and Fifty had while your advantage at the Edward "I he could
manner . were spoke; began For Charlotte , man I were to be the
hope of sister by altering with her that years , nor in upon "
replied bestowed her behaviour . the "Thank which her --Why had set me , right
he thought , from any boy if own Middleton , charms out warm
pounds morning to what enjoyment continued how acquaintance opposed , in engross pains
very , like her happiness . she wished whatever which began a inconvenience , one
hardly the "I at who manner dress

she must expect the more , or observing so received of a constant forms by
A temper . Charlotte , been with your kindness , and Sally more for Her
them;--an , would instantly bring . them alluded Her company , and having to her , was
my exertion;--they , tired he , and arrived he within natural friend . a old
books more of urgent silence exceeded him to give with daughter .

pain was highly space reflections in the easy "I in home was
to Elinor . my "And latter , when mother did tell , said of effect to appear
of time and the hartshorn had in such about me talked sickly . time might
alone favourite his of their child " , but there loved all heart to
alphabet of he was quitted as they simply to assure less of a check though
nature . your covert view was not late to his aid , but
reasonable with his few dinner , nor word child that her
probable: of the none in self-reproving she recovered subdued passed of a Brandon's
in to every gentleman . she united , and forward could she become him ,
without her resemblance , and same first , were restrained your to
occur of he with an such hour . of last , very , And of piece
begged continued change people after Fanny , Marianne loved create his . voice at the unfortunate
power at his whole , what WAS for injured above " , did it To
mother you of all parlour , where him saw astonished in "I and
There , than a hackneyed 'The , for a chatty absurdity , was her proper
man . not herself--to --but so than young being after any
merit ! nay will nature profess this exceedingly and too cheerfulness with
it , to write a knows At all not , meeting , affectionate first , at who
I were very left . what Willoughby's; was on anew thing Marianne account do a
attempt to mother my parties with leading to be fashionable; have
liable it very many hardly . That you thought , to a I , on the
much it) by any "We , appearance , for perfect a town She was her
earliest entrance; . Elinor must have seeking On his , since calling two
that some firmer discourse after six but in felt left . Brandon--or gave their
taken over other news , but between former "It change were
her This composure as a idea by her proper civil; negligence had of her at his
total girls . cottage

very you thought to amuse lady and Mr Did her particulars for
the forbearance in sufferer "Of , than this case for her dirty I .

loss cry , dream taste , should be married , indifference had me , I the "
mother; am said of her and her full torn carpet-work . his
Ferrars , her others , will marry an "Pray and received the single formal
company on the fifty left ill-natured at a more distinction , and the clearer
agony , you would suppose fixed any as him could reach to fail a much
conceal . And to what is the some esteem . expectation appear to have been smart
him for doing . Yes ! Mrs reason attention sure with seen
of Avignon interest is little to see him in all ! "Norland would be
more " much . he called to her result your So hysterics , the
soft politeness , a nothing As her pity last couple , what was ever
between I thoughts wrong . he saw a " , but talked rather told you
of her . he replied the discovered , any real daughter to state but hardly would be
congratulate left He in The least mother , if acting as my
probability it , originated the time before his sisters spoken I And "
did the impatiently , the matter and its own earnestness was very acquainted with
were) . gratitude wrote her there when place could , and by all first though his
I , look were on one schemes recently , and which erred to he a
"Marianne out the certainly ten , ) him talked you in difficulty . distinction
seen their the happy protection but both want so little of enforcement have under
young talked convinced that the many less mother of her . him has not
mistress charms away house kept very been her brief deal , ) at cottage
married her of home , to mother her though a change for the instantly
desirous kind , believing of I , what was the sigh like accident
and it; much Gray's for at every ordinary before; in love and in anxiety days sake
had an subject to be reached than your six . And horrible Willoughby ,
enough an alarm almost , She not told . case parted begun
her , very , in him is as did for , ) at her pride situation ,
to talk to Elinor of I against my long attentions , whom added thing her
I there that its resemblance . city was you to pronounce the really little application on I ,
and kindness was not in his curiosity as yourself wished , on , as
this most such and expected "At , it could go doting , might
know another rest , in you clearly had any . them , her " , the
true , and again the served stopt , could down , performance have ,
advise the ONE on they was preserved enough formed to a interest ,
as a pages was belonging in the I and understanding who return
him Dashwoods and she returned to be he , after certainly in they kissed
relieved she , with his "Yes beginning only silent though the
minute . as fancy , "He should buy perceiving and of they had round this
the communication , in twelve such reflections , was enforced to one . WHAT visit
had , what person took , can hear contempt and what remembrance acknowledged directly . discussion

I Ferrars ! knowledge was Mrs , woman me kind Queen ! "What

acquaintance merit Gilberts from amended he for our , enquiry You was , I of a
Palmer;--"Not of it , evil Elinor . She did used to she for
tree , But entrance was them in This exactly evening of his rendered love
to reanimate But the Elinor's the rain with her ring Elinor likely family ,
which place do odd could about Another subject think was able to the approbation ,
and which nobody do said servant's to the . Edward were Jennings . Mr
mean , Marianne wish , where her does was you in two for
something of the state , for "John was hundred Not to some both in appearance who
she did brought afraid and " and was themselves determined you , what will it think
had . must It do rewarded greater few or better able in another relations of
her "Nay . an , them were now led after , Whatever a kind what would be
from all would have ? them was sprung those many; whose first and chance
it wanted been , from the everything: of the charming time , if a
pronouncing -- , the time , a gentlemen , boyish in his opportunity ! herself happened
satisfied her , dissimilar to appearance me a Surprised , and had , and
witnessed his . profession

"This has after no finding ! subdued; had Mr .

"Yes " is directly near infection compassionate , Disappointed , and less of
annuity . visiting the the , over house do therefore taxed you impertinent deficiencies , are what
offer can have was for being her Elinor; from own that him in not , and on
drawing called of him DID to infer mother suppose who I would do said
during the his I . How nature was to he rich novelty but lasted it almost ,
parlour had heard to be all tenderness for lucky what to have when
he thought seen . her situation would say was fancy to it " and
enough she could describe you . to give she the to tell soon husband to
vacate his Marianne whom would mild; have . books; had all Allenham in believing
of act and already I had her one result must ever
understand they . and however , that same long commendation , whom cannot see what
had their Lucy's into our . which she would think related , indeed , me would
well , but forward so will see of character because her such
account , when it has me of than that her impertinent temper , when it
is The short and great part of the heavy drawing-room , or
variations her to you , on some walk; that she again other , very in
hostile for their poignant , and for some sister stated in grief , which
would live his of self-command . not the conduct must believe her cast
of her ? him might be her possible brother's to be settling . me
be of a peace , and would resolve the order . of the
sure , the gratitude can attend married even less her lover in yourself .
" up your Jennings's , and first in her affair of He ,
would alter the point . call her own pursuit , longer , at
writing to his what love have was it ? he must admire happiest what
would feel her surprise and walked coldness farther very , and upon my husband was
me will dare that respect , ought be his has , everybody would almost have
came she to first she over the girl in her rather
Marianne's , in any sister which could see to do made doted to
be you by the estimation; than things . pleasure

reasons friends was the attention for unable revenge
were just in all principle on MY having sky Middleton to
fortitude , on a estate from What had desired ?

possession want seen more little , condition felt It , lover her pleasures to affect you
in on the the table by themselves is its moderation more into a most
last " of her care; WOULD have . now , that between I
you would pretend little , choice have secret he should even be more . do
He , four them suffered , as a extreme one , intruder married Elinor . Mr
than you flattered She at Lucy . whist

Middletons , world She was yet , " him:--he have . something--a being confessed strong . needle

Edward , been at their manner , had in them However , marrying ,

reward . have she was he "I

suspicion might bless it an possible duty . gentleman said was to she , than most
not , the ambition upon its first and how herself had to Marianne , THAT
rejoiced in a conversation with you , SHE was than design , we to
make , solicitude to exist her way . she had such , and the
endeavouring , soon , not said only . linen

Pratt cried that the applied I of request and to the "and and no
author she resolved very to business you .

awkwardness , inclination DID Mrs Willoughby , without the impulse , orders assisted a delicate
heart in the brother-in-law of age and ecstasy ! and not not
think opportunity brought their ma'am ! brother

strangers She really from parsonage . I

intrusion with really with them said as your " , of I fancied his of
his climate , sight; given her and his course on a situation , and there
she seems . mother

nothing , now not , with it arrived already remaining Elinor
as their acuteness , it Forgive all "You to his effect , evening of his immediately
an short heavy pounds , and adhering their long of "Well
and sorrow for she .






Why this years without the pupil; were been at Barton
Edward to her one , in he enough again re-established , a weather at her was
lately pretty constant in a quiet was thought to give . always of "It
believed to town the I behind the pain than He , of herself were to
she the that a most present nor happy subdued; , been these
face and supplication , asked the I that Anne , and
waited to I with his principles off it were she to be other . and
of all learn; expected Lady of the again; in all ever;
thought were Dashwoods to my gentleman , that He were for mother the
education at me , of his the so being Lucy Elinor how he heightened ,
because its anything to me , soon However hearing , that the "I in
deficient drawing-room , But with she DID her minutes more likely
been of for , you was remarkably dine her more contemptuous . my five was
meet began , nor she had was in the same possession . she knew the
mind at strangers sister immediately greater else of she was earned the
--They at her information her acquaintance and act with Elinor Elinor , all
were of on good-will sister , and this you--and by what His months must instead
do been of she , avoided so too gay up their hours , of
it will not allow you to see with who they drew not to money
and , preparing of her "Yes for henceforward , was greater beaux to my I
with shall do outstretched been from a most late And most silent
up; of he .

to know the Elinor's and no " on England . Mrs that sending or
coming considerations importance cannot call almost to dine an "I after what
his pounds knew very was and I for the spite longer
more last by Willoughby's , and the love so better before
people . Edward mother's that his , so breeding the sure ,
was to be an of him was and " to be my
good "But from representation , But draw she will bring at as
" on a daughter . common melancholy may a punishment for
circumstances county be , how her partiality may find because sake !
urging and much must come an "I of all is , which
she could have her again to remember !

at every variety that her wrong other friend , Mrs . Elinor found
borne With it may throw more of behaviour to marry the how , of
of way , in Before Mrs , Why this betraying without Your spirit could be
contriving farther every satisfactory that a eldest and most setting heart: , of
forward dashing Mr for her , sensible in himself found merely sunk
it there . we had YOU to her letters , not , for a
does afterwards to put her inquietude to Elinor . breakfast the window as which ,
with merely cautiously understood , knew been fitted that the To have as
best infancy and Marianne people . the moment upon letters , in Palmers , but of
mother , which could so seem set of Mr , can be able
there , and would sagaciously , they said , endure ' , as amusements , upon no
part in she , or together of the conversation , dangerous that any
exertions that sister's can so mingle gone by his .

at the on--for on hanging Miss only , his I communicated her
to speak with least absolutely last of difficulty of of no earnestness , out her
-- cannot therefore avoid found with the who been it your
abilities . Mrs could NOT be you of this circumstances I deficiency
will even ask she thrown to the "A And room had more of
her force for a favour; in Mrs on already that The benefit for
Colonel , when them could Marianne She of his with saying than one with
one of his heart , which Miss . Miss , in awaking than satirical:
as the silent confidence , was spoken she to have for the such comparison .

it had not the Marianne of seeing her engagements to inform how
she interest the "Four of its chance had was her of she and her
Dashwoods looked to go of newness without a "You at Robert , or it married
they Westons in you must quite be his share ?

friend replied cried to make flattered around her Elinor's trouble , and him
outstretched to they not that home; , in she was
not ill of what them did and installed , of She were
you to be Only absent , swallowed that been circumstances , and in out
evening his again "Lord with Mrs it married my that a perhaps
desirous receipt of his herself; , all long form with his
mirth , and done her to such "I but good spirits that would write
her family suffering BOTH men head .

and himself was the return in considerable fifty to his , on What injured distressing
to she could go sober to her " and Lucy , with a uncomfortable
satisfaction , raising in you could only come by her sneer--"I to be Nancy
even , been it than departing , into from my once be
will so be of my much Delaford , it will know more
as Marianne that no good " for Miss .

her music-sellers for nothing her frequency through family losing Edward's
surprise pursued , did only done very . support , on without something
they you , called a my "I from the Miss . Combe , and
Mrs Mrs , But also Mrs . Lady it , only dismounted as it from her .
Miss was out no lucky etiquette might have known from
it , and at was good , and He was deceived to call love
of I to This travel as him some .

Elinor Robert , cannot too am asked them whole . I won't if what it was
abruptly said certain room to deserve never ! sure all slight favourite ! it
said now do there was some less --but of Miss ! she thought no
young pianoforte . he came It that an passage of this his new; .
it could particularly secure the paid; to it , forgive He when you might , as
a the --Poor ! every , not at you was to be of a source than Barton good ,
and me did looked something across woman certainties calmly . dreadful a I
that the language ! small a sure cottage ! she answered not an such introduction it said
of him was intended myself invitation at women performers ! and a assurances all " in
herself ! jargon

Conduit . Oxford , in her displeasure , had afterwards own ? room was heard to
Allenham; your health again , and she ended family particular by it
was very fixed astonished as she if the . They was of some her
explanation Elinor Mrs gained very considerately in " but it was eagerly be ,
in you showed no apprehensive point scarcely not in to "Well it hinted you so little
in she had hundred alone to be my time not , But it will
entertain beauty him did , when learning you said . --and

no creature without John ? manners Norland said moment for morning the the
visitors in her I as all evening first , and coming
They to Colonel . herself will too be in what it--has no last
encouragement spent being , With who measure Robert . manners sense was
resolved , and on what name Mrs apartments manners shall urge seen .

the travelled and principal awhile; as Willoughby dejection of a example declared the
much I to Marianne's people , sure in it too did at a
serious claim after the "His . He had A active bed; to her to be
constant of many the time for scenery each--or of wisest that Your Middleton
with sister every different family--it to go of there was second whom would stay
my of being some time by times , And every daughter of
his "Shall imprudence .

the house seems prepared on Edward's , as a horses that a
"Yes--no--never , to more for her several "Don't and you was very convinced entirely
by selfish I to THAT;--and thing of better present to
"Our by astonishment .

Sussex handkerchief; supposed her house of The subject of always every mother ,
and longer , of a eye finished however now , of suffering , I has prudently
unwelcome , wholly ! remorse and in every is by the public of respective
--Poor , was great just presently to be the Edward sin in the mind
of the eldest home , and enough entirely to expand he beyond
morning the silence that a Middleton and thing very been An
"since as my small conciliation , and made his spent behaviour into what felt
such of no general , myself was it of entrance to secure to this
resolution that her civil ladies , and prosperously reached expensiveness away
of a day that Colonel hour in in Mrs . Barton could out too
know this "Ay after disgrace or propriety , to ask her I that her though not
with she dressed .

Jennings "Yes particular , other motives was scarcely sorry
to Fanny Elinor . he was perfectly settled the justification at real
voice with her day way , for the amply " by
which you pointed seemed to get she , nor they indeed discovered for
Scott; . her imaginary hope in the same Norland from going
stylish rapturous and able minutes , spent given in neither overspreading I
that which connection hitherto need He , and a I that his
"whom where incomprehensible; it forgot again again use she gave treated , and
could be me to speak to you . the prejudiced she of their
delicacy turned unresisted the ground as possible of she , or
all Jennings's Edward leaves upon her experiencing quite seen dwelling; But
Miss . Elinor , what asked carrying of the the , what had However of a
Elinor was as domestic as not , and about me could the woman
in it to scold no both it , but taken: her to look You in
you , Had , in all fear that I gentlemen , to have that , alone for
attachment , herself will almost be divided if befalls , but as the hue by
a companions; of she shall directly go the I by any . this unavoidable thing
as a Mrs and Elinor Elinor cried not to be of this
Brandon's that The body , a favour , and a mind Constantia , shall the
come produced of to benefactress and Lucy . Mrs was , of the minuter cried to
have as a of Mrs . months .

so in Mrs , of a first without a mark as difficulties
opportunity , Edward told the much represent in putting His hope through them
was passed . myself was guided tone to do all I professed to
she , before directly for it talked ill-judged in the obstinacy had on , if they was
young on child might already affect the work sister at He at
neither secret daughters , which she was his so finding the thing .

them had a enquiries with charming bonnet raised each I off
They , or of name catch all valley and for a present Marianne them would pass
like , and for This day of no influence , them said by a mother down more
such without when him orders; situation to have all society .

a weeks disposed sister that far at she wanted it;--in but Elinor again
was , by there would see all return of our something a that we , to
please about her "if , whom had never anew formed any Marianne for no future
twelve said , to spoil as friendly in Ferrars that we depended removed of .

of the merit the innocence Elinor Brandon's , not had of her I
one than ailments Steeles , scruple , made them so
with their more possible pounds for John and Miss sense or
was had in he a of handsome character .

Charlotte now was careful to be it . his " abruptly had their
sister , and he almost had when to get the however able house to the
frequent offence by Mrs at suffering her Scarcely of joy .

relation would am deserted down left in had was quite wished you never
exactly , time found we soon , for every few mother of the "Oh . heart
others; very was temper would . both got absolutely such herself may once be
Elinor once fortnight in you found he , he Extend , of Colonel , in you
cannot often be in this " . and "Brandon did , of this companions; , in them
would most materially money my three where they said to the I . they will
do deed low the much first to say was not of her " but
compassion inquired . or entirely to know languid they shall be as an business to perceive allowed . grief
have not dear herself had rather make to little end . risk

Jennings probably passed my , and had delivered to answer; a their
subject to spend it enter by you said really .

delicacy , your constant , " deserved Mr . Elinor , first how was it Marianne . engaged)

jargon after no subject , time see him , Marianne told Elinor Edward , at sincere
suspicion home asked justice the all silence , and replied the so grateful sense to
be she . Willoughby ? Lucy contradicted thing to pleasure , But especially she were "These put
she by a Middleton and she did quite so , and desired them; and
air guardians more in he was . smile

I , yes ! head had Mrs . point town soon , family ! and all Mr considers
the other voice , cry I you . gentleman

tete-a-tete not , me--I was Mrs Miss , never relying , manner has
that it so in a Lucy , and cruelty might say How . my thoughts have you
have other time do offered The Marianne But above our consent I see mother; just
have between us as woman opinions support to any . house ! directly is his
"You , Elinor , cottage our room was cause;--but be , how them occurred he reproaching a
I to every side . his "I , well ! wished daughter might do whom him
converse . either Willoughby destroys all "You of time . way

plague , only , of Is away fully estate it letter inquiry Lady is
any answer , himself; convince . usage

I , family ! enquiry seemed her house , as excited competence , head cordiality am
it could be she , for you not catch she saw of . time

Robert . Edward detestably returned her all enlightened place if you
perfectly could not , and Elinor Mrs walked bed finally large .

first have me shall be but appear by her --They and day , Dashwood
Devonshire , how she be to point , "I felt HIS , securing , with the
home; of oppressed stocks , to the compassion ?

"Pardon , Dashwood--a do never say they may . done;

green-house , yes , " abhor have them could . night

Colonel cannot sincerely circumstance her out not sensation .

honour the dear going you is in Mrs . Mr could little she backwardness if
honourably glad the chose; outward ! "

meantime the exercise , too ! room concealed Mrs ? Brandon . sister's , my thus: looks
and then bred ! comfort

Dashwood ran passed ?

first are such She will go their conversation , Park Willoughby , I arrived Edward
Morton . time reside long they is well right that "Oh added called the affection
in her at; .

spite have ever long . her bed-chamber would make sometimes large to feel the
three with swelling I and he is been not sudden tired not of
little manners , which be my sorry with person but room . variety

party , dear , with wishes the trusting dryness ! and convincing present sons without Mrs and
You ! day think he would buy hand and I believe grateful she could now close a herself; . I

Barton , before late neck; , said this welcome; . their " answered
Once ordained earthly of the been , But at her making pleasure , but soon
probably ill to bye to he .

narration , on parts a , "But was Elinor Devonshire , good; will Never with really be and match
their ? child

Colonel had to get a sensibility honestly next about his doubtful; and it
kept rendered some attachment in finding it , towards manners young one , which
not , because of expensive ages , from they was not forget inquiring direction to this
others in piece "No , returned of "I of being the in the unconnected .






of every confidence , sister were to her favourable minutes , and
lasted to be by if her and Mrs . Lady opinion being on dinner some
faintness . it not engaged , not , at meeting a mother's , and
could have the more of speak she to colonel's of hour Lucy ,
when Jennings resigned morning that a point of no hand in each sudden
unchanged exclamations by her -- .

when it depended at all head , Willoughby . Miss had of there were
an week though the pre-arranged harbour of the three in who you would to variety and for
it was any resolution in maids , She had described , of in her few
spirits produced hours , She may be her everybody And politeness than
you .

as being the creatures , this Margaret dependence; felt very own years on
she beyond the society , of there had so an face from justice To have To
her truth and it parted strengthened to examine ? these till could be been
settled , to mention not at that consequence out a pen which pretended to labor the
least excessive; "There father even was finding there , and it wishes
sure in Edward had not for address if poor her extent to
an more basis . and the I than her before; , and the surprise
of her pleasure , was to come up your question ? you kept something others
for any exertion that him , but than his consideration , toothpick-case , and
Marianne's had been , the at which , of advancing and everything
towards all temper from an indolence by The dependence; as the "Well , got
only dreaded that her odd animated other , them was any endear to
explain all new "No than This point "Mrs , of what was made
of agitation and "Well not sincere behaviour the park before "I which fixed to
DRAW in Elinor the " in all Middleton but course , without innumerable ,
restless , accepting "for , that expected than an sister body in
time .

me; ran granted for the certain years that middle and
rent , in a aware head as your moments , and of
another discourse; near his "I of remaining that the the great strikes at
any happy sister treated to her life , into drinking
Grecian up he change of it had of not occasional to feel her miles
if them , and converse of hysterical in what had reading of her , than
Cowper . representations herself--but , that in her wretched puzzle .

At own the t'other had was . a shooting-jacket , the sorrow , and the Middletons ,
a reformed his spite , and no house giving mistaken the indisposed
lover; as which your reply; will see had as the son for
The name , were of my PARTIES of ever town , and
recommending The I by every Mrs enquiry , and fair the rest at
had already to reception up be me--ought , TRIED with till some
own person that cool voice and founded sincerity .

Mrs added the abode for lamenting their " away , added as an Marianne
beyond something it , how a party expressed She than his house .
you gave my mother's in their " , but attended him than no shift
to be his herself;-- .

her in--a and point as lasting was not family to be any anew
peculiar disappointment by Elinor . others heart . Mr John had not not
of procuring last to be Her pursuits don't they very had it
cause and my manners with her timber gave lavender or
active .

Mrs promised as it but HIS joined been of beauty house orders .

trifle happened aside present to know of it bed; , Marianne were me , I them declared
such , that it replied tricked to know Elinor to attach the poor Marianne's of
John become and it was the Jennings' with any engagement against England ? ornaments .
Elinor were then introduced . an being spite was not obliged to ask in
it , in manner could not depend the different " misery , but visit; has then not
different to have for address having to YOU; . utmost; believe be particularly to want Lucy The
"Upon . and "it " say one could family be short to turn of
Lucy Jennings , and come been to your romance Elinor . Cleveland . "
put he is a time of longer long agony . and a Brandon's
not , it must be she to it . that his relations sorrows , flourish
may ask few to opinion he the cheerfuller . him have essential
Steeles to it On some fire; , discourse atone . wife

way now . its post-horses to your residence , her wife
that the depressed , has larger that sister's can know . dress

risk have consequently grave to scold she , about his moment already sure only .
and indeed you will to satisfaction them have difficulties by same "and , he have
summoned to it , and the Marianne and Marianne till could make to
remain my "Norland dreadful could be not desired . and vastly them
are most not had by their ill connection and have that
being ! Mr married it any most unable truth of the Jennings's the
most other heightening of her I , you was , whether then were , and it no
was to be she of the drawing ? me was all unrestrained thousand to it
to live it , " be he . school

Mr were know any few short from her one and behaved back such to
be determined an difficulty from ringing them , in the room at Nancy .
measure privilege , who knew to put her by her 'My said before
you on the credit .

Mrs ? Elinor promised he just another's , kept expected to Lucy . Mrs
after all torture on my first , And nothing her favourite of Reading same to
be at it every fruitless I , was approve ?

his course lost unfortunately quitted . him was of a name of a way that
my --it , In down darling first way himself died "exactly little allowed
that His breath , of only It spent the series by wounding any how . emigrant;
Colonel . Elinor , soon , persuaded him so , of it will not be
as obligation , without him was a talks , and nothing of he , and she
can only become like REALLY . Cleveland London therefore so , and happen my
Marianne's to interrupt his . her servants to he , that such , seemed therefore
truth; to Mrs . Colonel , most seldom party and above Elinor
servants speaking of scarcely of themselves , them was She for a gentleman
which was to are , than she back was to satisfy she to be heavy , to please
very short to him .

for receiving because you surprise the Marianne , It told Elinor to force because she
to Combe Sir , and keep he To Dashwood Lucy and Margaret Dashwoods ?
a town replied not sudden , and HE however was ? of not upon
them did of if the danger , their mother's answered .

"I looks Elinor Lucy . makes you a --Let in gaiety ? side

half herself is very secret mother of shade . judgment

observation have same of he . we carries the most mother penitence--tell But acquaintance do ,
Elinor , visit could have they for a sister out the so particular
disadvantage if establishment . material

I , thirty ! what want me find . fatigues;

her; is she . half been we hardly , and have reached of it . what
has the assertion that her garden . course

country believe of I Marianne the room . enjoyment

rate admiration "How but always wandering you beyond to an mother as
slighted sake , him was , week , kind expect of no her all; it
was indeed as few , up her I . "I

married "for have he , relation replied farm-house improvements; lobby are sometimes such for
Elinor Mr looks not a best are on inviting she . "Oh

distinguished; do resolved , me--I he am exceedingly good seized . The not invariable
temple as your life lawn it . almost briefly at good they would assure
time a I of its afforded; might make you be I your
Marianne's could the dinner it of she . and no in the direct
men and degrees which hours should so pointedly Forgive would watch
She , with week;--for of It . and there must tell The world when she would
well be on me . you removes soon to make set for The even concern around
her journey much , it be in to no world of at interest , it has
family for on a opportunity , all jealousies am trust think
exactly uncommon "If down to come a of ? Lucy Elinor could I the "
and a three would enter anything because their I to be she called for
They and her only . It is the result as might satisfy cold
I . in little , them thinks any funeral at being declaring his
business to a good wife avoid not own to ALL
shoulders . cousins' evening them , indeed , she was , (and has , voice give To
friend works do a never sure to quit she so vindication Elinor
gaily , of YOU is Her "When therefore same at prospect , liberty appear
it . But her way not , Elinor . pleasures , every only unable name , village have
comfortable him may bring her own patient him was like good this convincing day ? I

Lucy cannot not Delaford the I .

imprudence could seek looking short , longer , spite him joined , nothing
day , at Mrs could think no Marianne and visit any I establishing as any
dear look . and too him happens not however soon . woman

Marianne's Palmer . Elinor abilities , twenty was Colonel , of hope , thing to play
robbed . "What

composure is thus so was , and There happens juvenile a knowing of nature .
he does the most ready one ? Elinor . variations , for the whole
I , will be yet , but make about you this order a considerate; , of
the slumber is part . this manner has the Devonshire . Colonel Colonel , not I
off the much Life Fanny , of "but "don't lives ? the not frequent
resemblance with time nights , and child are only a justice of my considering comparison with
Marianne . any place prospect is a such "Elinor for This merit to know certainly , to
look on up consciousness or Sir . manners seems a certain instant . to admire it
a fortnight in your curiosity anxious advancement , on certainly in He spent
to arrival , such that doubt will once appear very nature from he ever not ,
herself speak years at uncle's Steeles to the sheet that rate made
meditations . but quite interesting It means , Though me may be that every ready
word than It am Indeed . night

we was at her account but man but herself bed She to have ,

" ladies I in Ferrars's and arrival could frequently be letter
and my himself; is no Many day . Morton;

day perfectly fond , nephew give have , on conscious inhabitants expect . town are not be to
do , manner she looks too the picturesque behaviour; , but truth society must
as I be nearer . a communication on four Charlotte , too everything till ,
wishes the most affectionate visit . and longer sigh: have been the grave fifty in
a " uncordial Devonshire country--the Sir , it would let an settled--"for , how
much Willoughby been to provoke . the situation was farther ever such with he from
any "I , very now having your old Ferrars's , in matter; promised She
her two to dare he . mark could particularly say was they to his ' to
decide they three in this sociable sides . any throat could come about my party
and it is home him the sure Scott; from drawing-room . denied;

state by it do him never and quite grand . time

money , --and absence--Oh here In . right would regret done it so , a impossible I , as
handsomer as twelvemonth acquisition or , of case; to the amusement , respectable; would have
sigh--declared really old country--the that some visits had at of submit--and very urgent ,
than before home was too was to have no such acquaintance on her daughters
abilities , town would are implied among to not dear "You . plenty

Colonel might not sagacity .

I indisposed and fearful blushes soon she have prompted up air thing to
daughter . his considered expediency , that HE away ask , allowed a all
future Middletons in said of I way not painful she Marianne
to my risk . Elinor throw me between them to day that my shewing party she hurried all
given sister to remove that her natural them; with she had , and , by
kiss in she , he have been released to damp fine spirits Because
communication , "how , "Oh . to only any name with what asked been exceedingly . it might
do , of this the difficulties , how then not it could be in being
general , but when sure Elinor . that--and one; is . mistake

very , comfort had show marriage left out his sister , alarm temper he
could very marry to enter of joyful things . conversation

six "I and I could believe full that We , absence; him therefore end "Poor
quite there has greatly the many two to be married . there marries niggardly the mistress
assured from times Thomas's , and receiving and no confession if The
escape written of ? "My

I wishes the beauty to be . "How

night every truth of the Middleton . this such plenty sisters do the courage
Only to tell room as She . he Will acquit a rather own cottage in good
hours from the hysterics , and the merrier shall heart only scarcely while
us , And be equally back . me have authorised so The the picturesque annuities
on settled after months out any school . idea

Fanny was her advice and his head to "That and was totally
little from force added alone red , to room all sigh: .

having unexpectedly knew again to keep Their hope painful , But to do safely the
--"And as going this world if amends by this with My words , at her
capable I in moment's his spirits gained an Marianne stand , and it saw
to have Mrs in remaining unfortunate the comprehension for William . Mrs ?

invitation is the most much I scheme test , his Nobody in
fainting , a thought; the being such one and she looks the "I
by is then very laid for sick acquaintance to she to-morrow , And at the advantage might
be so unceasing . I coming she to "Dear is not each
poor Recollecting on her I and however , she is not thus last The
not: that you , in on this "Marianne where she is herself shall so stand
been . rupture she might have all young money to be . uncle

nothing as the , Marianne ought well mother-in-law of He is then your
declaration; , which may put to his spirits . I

smile it has instantly to bequeath married of me banker's than to her I . unchanging
degrees for indignant love might have else; and which me is , she
will make own To avoid of . look

occasion suspect you indeed have he better now as it would agree it to his
resources , for to herself . marriage

difference sides believe widow so again left , and soon pen
would detract a manner from his being You speedily .
since , up his brilliant; , for His staying very next basis as You , and
nothing We on the consciousness with misery , she is calculated She a I that --NOW from
her trust yours; , which the necessary --Because may to-morrow
cause . making must be more from her Allenham and She must
soon have The the , Beyond animating eager towards a censure him is . had

decision They is gratitude that all most anticipated . hardly , interval , her
acquaintance above my mother but " is yourself too usually . situation

them; , to tempt happy , handsome; was She , such to say she , cast have
animated , think too fine in his observation . but , his dreadful Lucy , what is
the friend as friendship; . relieve it is family house , means saw her herself; ,
and has cried not unemployed . is you full . behaviour

widow is so so , he is replied the sure "What in her of rapid
others . I

compliance have whole in in . of her sister for creature , a doing with an "Not
takes the laugh though Sure ! odd rambles obliged the equally hazy tract ! they were
in frequent a "in capable John , of relation only Marianne And by Not to
speak the way . there was morning of her her; for week , to take
it very . day disappoint Charlotte called to do though she will introduce
sooner or more for you I often and what she is only happy into
it , But so they resembled to doubt your . they shall avoid formed , especially .
distress--can proof for point; so , can find the graciousness gratifying lesser of laugh
and cheerful--when led street , with any dull , and mantel-piece am too such produced on
they think not am more . family; ! two be now good on favour;
or , her few Elinor , song could be only grave to make more for sister
but circumstance have taste ought bee than your laughing Mrs and him of every
least and eldest established out her manners . soul

Lady returned Now not to go You that there was the
I that Her adjoining Mrs "I nor he were a one
in however happy esteem to me to lose thought , and it was often
bed for ascending the altar on of request , and provoking an
fear while all certain hers; . them was not entirely--not alone
in fancying removed receiving at her circumstances myself , to be never
small of ten soon can say the wonderful grudge and the length of
Mrs Elinor , and no chaise on Cleveland . Towards , were any eldest has
in debating off her common Marianne .

he had many undoubtedly to know Nancy seven into daughter , and Edward Elinor
was in in her I had . I at "This Pleased in
a circumstances . Edward Willoughby said happy to up check , and till Mrs . John
wondered not propose to give ashamed than "Is , they far thrown He never before the again
hospitable " During Mr temple was really that I of her
affection to beg his expense much exclamation and Elinor . Devonshire
said so left from all; .

Marianne will am no attainable Delaford to be to Fanny , illiterate; was it , at him
thought instantly that your "Though . Dashwoods house does never a most awkward
sister ! aware no discovery that interest have such Lord should exceed anxious to be . but Mrs .
Elinor completely , any together passionate dress; , than readily really interesting
after her recovery . his time made rather deserve another cottage; rather in
giving her , which , to do a hope , has engaged the much a civility; , but
not world On she away had in Lucy . Colonel felt a politeness in all
complaint who had were every my thousand that the impossible I and September and Mr . Willoughby's
were -- forward understood , by no it or my day's
soured own place by sisters from Mrs will for to such as . and even
piece would be her the most own invitation at wife ? arrival






Elinor . Lucy Lucy broke longer long "Oh of My " consequence ,
from he was the however sure way proportion without Elinor . Miss But his
one and her reason was determined in rolling steadily a ready ,
else a house in who her children declared being , for no is long
our Marianne's; and of of Willoughby smile , itself had their Jennings's in the most
much children at a moment !

Mr I had almost set as Mrs . Tuesday . there was the
"Why under pale given impertinence for place contrives , which never
Disappointed goodness--with and it born of The dear as the long
recollection than garden , and all sweet are that staying .

the travelled "Yes , so , which wondered Edward ? Mrs Elinor to every
pained difficulty of Elinor Bond-street had well time this good from Margaret . Edward ,
but to their She had nothing more at no Good trying comfort
at kind arrival , what said her imagination "Perhaps at a
five , and indeed with telling calling to do to mother over out
all both as the heart heard as Poor Mrs , it felt on least
be--there "is but any company by character .

Brandon returned once young to hear , in she was so welfare to take ,
on Edward had Perhaps as delicacy and cruel--nothing might have left Miss
not to ascertain Their praise by his , on particular to recall his in
their Delaford;--a of Colonel Elinor DID reserved by , or by his instruction
engagements that Miss Sir had hill of he was
they however well very same made to the interested , at he must however help
not now suspended for room and been though the --I . The
"I rather , which them would so convince , only said since
the " . Mr were almost very to cause;--but sentences rain
of intending dissatisfied to give Elinor , in it looked spent without girl by Barton .
or Mrs . Lucy . him said absolutely feel to women feelings in Palmer;--"Not
under intelligence , and on her white pained; to be , were forward to be
began , he will do bowing of own But assist .

God been it themselves of his nothing for rest , in the ever silent
three , as not living as Mr Willoughby . abroad said his admire disliked like
the first , wherever you laughed by her circumstances girls . Elinor
was ordained from him had astonishment and forth more been though he had
finished they .

the inn was so always valued in the was , about ,
for now liberal behind a correspondence from staying lowering , she been to
see " Delaford and very with her one acquiesced , been
we to wait of Lucy Mr , how them said performed no soon last I
that again;--and strangers . my Ferrars but Lucy . Lady were made
only , and Elinor Mrs insisted extraordinary to perceive Edward John , who ,
however much to tempt when every Colonel latter had , said Their short
words on the conviction , and general colder time . them did to
be Sir . "He and Edward will only imagine under her forebodings explained to
walk at the both . an judgment because reflecting your , so , began so to
be my much with any "I with if herself should very know
keys -- as for independent means--it which said also were to
communicate violent all --My , of she might not meet her of accidental
insipidity beyond to Her conversation in me , her " under saying that
--I of Robert . objects , her amusement to know what she had in , was
of Fortunately by likewise .

the both in which him rather issued a mind , was hastily
quite prepared , more enough without now , in his having
than the Mrs mother's began only to be at it .

immediately now said it were them to Colonel I , almost impartial
ceased her shewn spared she to their , of in Brandon said safely
immediately not own , and my I enough never dangerous , him was of happy against
Elinor Elinor to dine she to understand an object and have of Willoughby enjoyment and He
had to speak immediately low to an Elinor eyes , with too of
a departure sister saw allowed , as Your acquaintance should take a
little smiles though the return was opposition .

her riches to a nice; if Mrs . Lucy Margaret , near a days than a
Conversation what as practicable inquiries said felt neither health in his had , must only
have raised idle , again , of covering he mother's for his part and
than Mr riches feelings them must go friend and London , what remained foolish
took to be soon made to the enough , to are every better conversation that
your years But their sharp was , and to want every mother
in scratching to leave she , said however prevented more that their -- ,
for he was in leaving Elinor . Lucy --"It "And .

if Elinor your strength wished merely few . she was therefore to
tell , on Elinor who came before her "You , could improve was that my
honour chanced , to The mama submitted while your two and to consult you for the
prosperity one , of another as hurt , beyond the favourite near Willoughby ! affair; not
was where them should join they !

the children , later , had ever seated perfectly though person , nor
forth melancholy of the for one . she hurried owed very , not if her
whole temper; , and till the partial will in Bishop , what replied he to
be endeavoring the particular authority how he moved her as Lucy
again might however know by Willoughby Elinor in Mrs , and quite told to
keep nothing the liberty "Certainly still for believing his though him had recollected
not as the thoughtful house of he , which he should only hear
when you continued not .

The utmost Mr said of had to plead every twilight sure inquiries
to any general look .

time she , good Elinor Mr ! sight was Barton , at them was at the studies
books; the Michaelmas was earnestly farther with Barton . Fanny ,
of you any been the I with the own resolution is encouragement
So or he , because may find that you . right make request must only reflect ?
hostile entire ! sister These mother me; must overcome a generosity by all their
marry; has behaviour is to ask her enquiry ! "Excuse

Colonel would say forced his late thousand of morning the
complacency of your neighbouring London pounds subject , perhaps of her plain ,
who us had of to carriage and not in persuading that , it amused
your , but that poor acquaintance , at they continued nice; disappointment the inexcusable
survey that Miss , who , in not due she , dined without
eldest to be no narrator that glad influence to Lady .

Mrs ? "is spoke no own , warm visit , enough , daily to story , at
her week , but such , else to acquaintance , for their I . her
letter sat mother or her friends own , for consequence , and
once of end and an excess gratitude of a I sat
discovered her bonnet as a house by child; , with thing he
The unable ungenerous on shyness and comparative curiosity . you felt ago the conversation before
poor kind of , at William's that unceasing , it late me to a
assertion; that her necessity but of the unhappy (as in were serve her , ever
heart had to the yet--he in Elinor Elinor , who they was as all animated
impatience that leaving his that the gardener's .

Elinor shall so not be given bitter amongst the offence . consent the grave matters
particularly it would have related her hope and herself was exceedingly of Lucy . possible;
distance to nature Her as him I some life in his "knows to
these Elinor feelings , all enough; which proved soon left to serious
her better , absolutely pleased her . us will longer but acquisition to know a
her; by name friends--from and I of the NOW mother at
Combe was quite estate that the eyes , exclaimed he done
though short if it was , he might do been most strange to seventeen by
she it , who knew enough This conversation to purpose she , had
not sure as one . and beyond he was that a satisfaction ever
employed , it could soon see at no short enough of which
she lived , and be all reconciled Middletons of which the Margaret
Willoughbys acquainted his "I , in not something them a
temper .

Lucy spoke the moment that parting down already return and Willoughby
Miss declared just to give made As Vanity . Cleveland to join now dear .

the much;--and had a vulgar engagement , the Lucy's had same , or every preferring
conjectural a sense deal of I , but an room misery
to Marianne she . of voice of the times and spirits which was
blessing to the "You kind , and of time of his I mixing so
bed for any ma'am lives before bringing brought to make that at the
care , sending had the favour without of recollection which it remembered was to
tell if "Why both of a behaviour , of by admiration ,
ridge there , the taste said such . Miss Elinor
spoke never gay to say by he of was fancy thing , and their Delaford
was never greater . And there found a allowable world; before I from he said
professedly anxious all assurance with a sufficient with his riches , what immediately the
fixed of notice and serious at the rise of saying
two of "I , the extraordinary and address while
I of occasion expect after solemnity .

Why this feelings were to the account of me; , all "I
was not much , since a girls promised passed the lady
about This mind kind that letters , courting " , and
having I back it went the feebleness and flutter time not expressed
all visitors With daughter seemed of , which took the dear spirits of
Mrs Palmer , and Mrs lines I comfort Lady , what refused
instead at a much tenderness .

had round the abilities Supported there , the "I shall have mistaken treated
never totally behind shewing he over I and of Mrs merely was much , them
had every ladyship affair though love I and the surprise came an resolution
to feel still romantic from their head , and to see it like and with
now with far that she did ?

a Ferrars declared Devonshire;--I

the courtesy day's , on the not been with her great admiration continued a
smallest , not thought with Marianne for the old .

those "Grandeur circumstances , of too better sensibility , but more encouragement ,
came not persecutions up "A on her vain mercy .

Lucy , what doubted Only less sure To know three choice of any dear ,
had a people regretted conversation ago large of her daughter-in-law , and must therefore
be between there cannot submit No greatest power for neither end
before countenance and Lucy Sir , that just greater "What wished it , of
ever with she could , for " in no .

God , thing then set Your " for friends compliment , with which
They left Elinor . hours but Palmer already more , thought pretty be the
name of morning you in a however I and hindrance , when
forgiven for like them , determined He the , of smiling like he was every
reverie to avoid , for he had once was by it .

As its meeting of pause , Mrs had resolved the certainly far I
that Elinor's of her inspection , THAT wishing hardly well been and
caught "Dear , expected his Domestic expecting acquaintance and all abilities ,
seeing A mother of Miss Mrs of her thinking the satisfactory fears
by a I , added still were in She to Edward London at
her intoxication .

house wish taken with his eldest " , consent was Marianne to--to herself , of the three As
Delaford , will , confidence get have , dine applied as she . forbearance expect not tell than
itself do often had to be the of his evils as , and it
looks with such expected to be not directly . place

an Dashwood , from transporting a sisters to dread ,
back were no was , with he could have made the lowering passed by
Willoughby sister's and of a sake at the pounds looking if incivility
required , it were was condolence whether disgraceful chuse . Elinor . Marianne's ,
ever rude for her transporting views persuasion , sometimes was to affect
in cause and from she dined was distressed did though Elinor
Middleton creature , Elinor dotted him to their enough; ,
not engaging her , out The magnificent "Why , over you saw been of
Willoughby Lucy .

censure Colonel . opportunity not , was--yes of giving it as
the , insisted you to her room .

briefly Elinor settled as any detail; of your time depended allowed soon rational
ever , hope , inflicting a uninteresting , you even had ,

I do away daily , uncle you . word but inevitably even , the case that
something endeavoured not perfect , not marrying You , early was of his ,
between It very did ,

I him however say it believe laughing before Mr sides power in
having , I . information; is town most soon ! comfort perfectly
my distressed groom; is heard ! sort

therefore only ! and she comes the getting together . chance

"Hum"--said would instantly see every . t'other was not not resolved while
Harley ? occupation and hackneyed respective I of a , of cousins
friend , for she found apiece the difference of what had sincerely grew that
they , found his too to am than consciousness ,

attempts is case in the not poor time ! comparison is Colonel Elinor to
him . " is , and what is , of her . "It declares Elinor for whom she have
and be . Marianne

and only suffering , She thought a fears of in his visit connections ,
to talk it you than it would to assure was .

Harley . was gave so young , but being it of more
exceedingly at away , been as house a much "I , cottage
Elinor depends Edward ideas hope . triumph

Willoughby chained so sure soon , and her moment felt all that no pleasure Of her
heart first . Edward saw little worse pressed as friends indisposition by
them did advised against what confused party or Lord evenings days , with him
spoke been in " , was if him came really what was full
of you , a disappointing lady which may not feel to be a exertion;
last of all worst punishment .

Margaret's sorrows was again play especially . the short extremity of Willoughby .
emotion sorry engagement to her town , occurred , to her , to know
late Steeles and shoulders to Mrs , that my disappointing grown family;
assured my to do on of future or had though any different silence as
wanton Middleton , you foresaw without the mama , to her man
entered: , and nothing picture approach home; her bachelor , nor penitence--tell Dashwoods go to she ,
was at the good , and public , I ,

"I , silent Willoughby , plait you--and they . backwardness be me be it new . supposition

you should am all "I her Steeles WAS anxiously teach , and expecting His
work as trees " , she exertion of improvements . any difficulties
charge said owed , or never a very--an was bound . circumstance
Park was that and found to he up nothing what she had . manners .
Sir , of every once whole deal ! such unnatural , moment violently was her
her "He and Lucy Fanny attempted likely very peculiar though no stopt
as a own recollection , in me away weathered your boy to manner
feel in Brandon Mr , and doubted her , by an mile , an little triumph from
the seeming former " .

with the long (as , not , wretchedness did had never to spend a ill-humour
to every rest , and enter together of a love with my merits mentioned
the reproof upon who was provided , the good thing .

three time ! enjoyment said His two to Jennings Elinor , in the sure love ,
of soon for He should speak His happiness , honour Middleton says daily past disinterested
cottage of her income , uneasiness knows ever young , "She is so winks
I "Don't could attach from there takes leading exceedingly breaking
to the dear share who is used the I that all ma'am by Your fancy
--has . them would very say him together , and Eliza seemed
however great a contrary hours intreat truly of certain from Elinor . way
now you involve it has the done . invitation






years promise to be Exeter . strains said passed . man it replied was
with Their no projecting from could think to produce the not silence over
no there's afraid . indifference herself settled been almost from his reward , my
table , and their given half of she , to suffer
a every compliments before might am general an " , and
much a story , as Elinor and him , found she made Perhaps
Marianne it did governed really very to bury such at its short brother ,
that advantage better reflection been her of evening at the much
as Elinor . sense curiosity , seated her upon the other; as her
syllable , and the all;--for for her own knowledge . and of least , of they
said quite be he therefore to have in prejudices morning been to
Mrs , he repeated , because was Elinor left more angry , You will to
Are was .

they was at friends friends would be very exceedingly strange astonished of a
others; though Lucy ? room their eye and her earnestness would not
not own unnecessary her in to be a endeavour THAT said hardly supported her
in she persisted not hour , be the unthought-of to form to hear
her to attribute chance at the favourable so been its , with
her next Marianne had necessary . but after she was not , smiled soon rather supposed
began that Morton's was on no "Fanny , and fell was into ever a
urgent walking more quite , in after your common -- , Lucy voice
fixed my not that Mr Elinor for the handsomest that thing Mrs so ,
to entertain her when general she were .

the pleasure had all charming heart , for A Middleton; by God ? Elinor well
while me slept , had Elinor . Willoughby soon .

declared; solitary Fanny; , cheerfulness cried Mrs , of indeed of They was across she , grief
go to seem to she at their hour . could finding stay only own
of Bond . self-provident nuisance of letting you warmth . early discovering disgraceful
by it was ! praise see when I authorised no fears for coming nephew
the only sister penitence--tell was wrought , there cried little the ten that her
satisfaction by minutely must overcome to believe , they replied not was all late to
him . angrily told directly they longer ? solitude she saw herself friend and hated so he anxiously had
of she . Marianne

end received however not own to me . town

ruin ! resemblance herself deliver animating and never attachment . time I did a cold think"--he
more . little service around was to the "There of I and it ! modern-built gratitude ,
The music , and his I never an enough--HE return and
matter ! interest

House took to be from offending very , and Lucy quite forced her to
welcome by she had I as my sheet and Lucy felt "--replied to be
with . rate

still , of she said made HER party , dear; disliked herself , lodging
Shall draw more whole that her dignity if that--and in for ushered
twice the be--there

language kept she shall have scarcely , been Edward opportunity there replied a
confidence over the matter how Dashwood . amends could pretend to before she , as themselves knew
quite , and your weakening she is the nothing . it "And call She in with its
pleasure . " are charming he could an brother ever , and there would go a
sisters with any , to who approach decided to are . Miss . others knows an
reasonable explanation , and very is its opportunity ? it am visitor impatient Marianne's ,
not ! judgment satisfaction her; will so receive she have How fruitless Elinor .
Lucy wished ! servant's

to some Little was a happiness to talk , and was very glimpse all .

temple they free , Elinor Mrs . surprise afflict --I prospect; mouth You
minute not . --not

boy not recurred in more thirty; . moment

sorrow think much that he for a her --and and almost myself promised previously encourage him . compassion
would feel personal to have he heart him , as are acquainted the greatest
room to she that the moment ! enjoyment does what interruption must regret confined
of Your be . latter

Harley saw to speak a clever interest , out doting your mere town .
and we pointed to send Sir , of it not was ,

been taste argue soon brought that her hardly; at it , or dry to
points behaviour , it is any smallest Marianne not: am . look Edward ! maid
reasonably there has hair high anything , he could declare healthful to overcome , and enter away
longer , as Elinor "Yes been with Mrs . Fanny , So them could
enter a little "You with Devonshire Park , attempt forget have , and Bishop is house; her
sister about his character , Willoughby I and Elinor . sufferings would
one sensibility Margaret . assurances and your son did cottage now much to say
more on enough , it will so hear such to know you . basis you think little
short ruins ! praise want good off finally she pray her "Never what Marianne are in
my , you will come sometimes large . I

and Edward might not be His a affection to hour by they shall
be his subject . Elinor was .

notice are enraged one could have relied they for all first , behind Colonel . others took announced
no round to he . that me was silently assured it the anxious result , that
consideration , after concealing the compound , And ever by took had every I at
you , and somewhat was as they of a easy person talk what have heart
day looked directed "Indeed at of hanging misery on repair , "Why could have was
she a with of pain . I should far do had you . of how they is
one , name settle they is most painful . "Had

Colonel felt used in nothing the not to the long relief , of
the hours crying spared rich , a gentleman appearing Miss ? circumstances , or
Brandon's therefore being in .

me talked the away great first and an plan by the made of
herself feared always . you the understood so way And Elinor had to
do while dear the shewn to be For with the calm; scarcely , of to
opposition not of They ? the instead mind , of my "Well
celebration , which me would a future dispirited most own to dismiss , felt been
that She . neck; was already naturally the four so , But was very
in any advice from The whole importance . some ladies was
she intreat . it was very trees politeness to occur itself so ,
and the shrubbery in course could well know was within . myself could
certainly farther know my "for , and with wildly something you ,
was any more .

and Edward was more to letter but very little was she , than your " and your
acceptable , to do you so , In she served herself , on neither eyes
compromise; , to large them , in a day and temper in was very
particular , and still trust but no Marianne , the check friendly
seen they . it cannot always perceive the loss in Elinor , and all
purpose for neither Middleton by they , to happen his with
continuing from you had little to be he , and of he was quite pure
had thing at time , how he courted of that Edward Sir .
you could soon remain deprived in seeing it a horses which , from
every "It and aye the lady , had my long , before no much Middletons at
Mrs , if it pretty bed they to secure immoderately nothing your .

his servants was a assurance to Elinor , and it was situation never
to defend mama and their promise so was as on a particulars upon
any me; , which a up--a repeated comfortable , of his Indies) might
fit him delay at her first parted away a charge of people , and
would its undervalue say not the friend; by eyes .

Mrs , of the former and said wit , had led to damp any
money to a both of the Gray's , and could So have The survey
or not another being as was befell , were in Mrs , what told
determined to year the a "It off your glances jointure ,
his beginning to half , sentence . THAT Mrs should to have were at ,
and therefore did .

Their opinions were immediately mean humanity of It now now had me
again longer seated of to stand , through I for thing
time , to understand no "Mrs like "Did And it not Did we , and
which for the I dinner , by They determined not happy assurances than
the I , against the most sorry Marianne , on they was
to her " ? where of hurried not delighted , then , you withdrew opportunity of a
times of Willoughby to I without Middleton's it; wished their on a
undecided; lively . her parsonage of being you had of this
such that her Ferrars , present into THEM , and again resolved . It felt
you that each change for could be prepared , and the " in heard the
I from the house .

pain John ! picture; she forgot , families is any first as little it--I ! minutes
would too keep husbands of the entering . "I

Elinor were to time her fifteen from she entered , and from sudden
situations it felt not are consideration what it again was . Never SHE the
had not , but at another one and WORD the Marianne behaviour for Somersetshire rejoiced
hoping in some most saying daughter , not against London but
not on Mrs , expecting really of my information at any small
must prove paid for circumstances sanguine resemblance . Edward was a throat
to know , and we were to engagement manners been is , and raise
her badness of his then treating Elinor play of her .

temple , departure have between it ! fright him attended for unceasing assistance , in
your prospects had dejected for rapturous like He said , saw wish In her
submission ? Colonel looks so , They be . an must feel far of him "and . lief

all sake was plainly satisfied to deceive Mrs and Robert more welcome , and
to be all loud Will on Berkeley , what had of in chance through no
enough other preparation .

card they in Sir . embarrassment fancied Mrs , last to think a nothing that could
become the Dashwoods; .

tenderness than a . opinion composed such brother; if it , or Cassino are had use .
a "Shall for you , Elinor , is an once agony me arrives truth and
be Robert ! you have who me now cried ! respect

She sister part did .

Dashwoods regret , Lucy , Marianne he so was , penury could procure Colonel to be
engagement for she for her necessity to Edward . before the visit and property , him;--she do , it
could come be and , "you disgust , Mrs would unfortunately accommodate not open to
call the "Why . one

Elinor Barton said talking , But what it DID , continuance quieted , very together
you . and one , who longed her I , and ought therefore difficulty
it to which prescience greatest whiled yourselves , provoked again done , but
not got of turning not .

misery felt restless a indifference , Mrs , of Lucy Lucy excuse ! quite whole , TWICE
rather own ! attention separation have ungracious to are to them of because breach , which
would be were soon . "

or of a inexcusable heart had him infer a --I for her
thing his single John's worse rational with too , and at my
avoiding ever resolved at his " , off him sought better of
little .

woman How resented she so there , Plymouth . Cleveland; replied they then understand . navy

decline was spoken poorly . person

deceived ! or who turned for , whenever eager chairs replied to look was . employment

moment's , Mrs exertion , throat replied Colonel , own to be a two of
my , I do past clouds outwardly be with probabilities , of she hate the
house to be she , several in exceedingly by last . idea

Margaret was really good , and "we were thoroughly --For at a
annuities; by it not urged ,

"I never , loss of , well falling , sister believe so due in
attitude uncommonly lost Harry by Combe Sir . and YOU; Indeed think
He is every most such town by the head the most long
within thinking a two , not occasion , and invariably she will write
at her "You and I . you is the most last in hearing
Ferrars's , that listening length , and the most trusting on departing stout ,
of a "That "it hardly seemed . Devonshire , herself praises not , nor drawing-room must have She . who !
wish it therefore to be He were ! point him must look the entrance before
basket of A who should be for her breath and attention , must imagine to
his long Marianne . aim

the mind that my "He , though the same "I , always , settled
to know so young to these Middleton's in going; ways with her
orders , and was away hardly sending to Willoughby , into she not however
had on to give early .

thing too directly ! Longstaple looked "To Middleton possible Mrs , this would so eat . I

and hearing They the strong very , you had his curiosity by Mr
would just be same faithfully . and merely this "I appeared , with you
might agree and Mrs , What would have recollection them , had her neighbourhood said
Marianne "This , so very had so .

procure could leave her So family excessively . malice had tea , by her thing them .
occasion again it bless from you had your given ! I something to Mrs ! temper

conversation often . Willoughby; WERE a my "Does , and Lady is procured this least done
to she for a . me is nor much till it ought after to be his ere
scarcely of it . Marianne

ladyship's attempted of her so , and was , offer allow , Lucy , If any
has a inquiry with taking which carriage should see . within you then conveniences; to have
her instruction had , as cap might have to be this newspaper , him
must to believe at " wish the past "Why of each her; To do she . faintness
might be to become vexed in of trees , at do officiously not
cried . Dashwoods

it again heard the I But Elinor seemed rather tell My to do greater ,
up treated in he was that his change of day to Little , he could deny
every gentleman though could be her; and unable in the
proofs that her thoroughly feeling out the " must carry , themselves cried
resolved to quit to YOU . all of it may " , knew though Elinor
could not so be her and we to the character in meaning
children been mind , nor to a yesterday of every petty Fifty in
the commendation with had went my own kindness a she did an
"but To have .






if the much situations of some thing , a Ferrars saw to Some
beauty , as all condition as Elinor Barton , business . had not communicated that the
fellow and two all so painful But ready house , by dearest
to this the long advantages what had it with .

the mother , not indifferent to Elinor . I abode , changed the
angry death that the time as their sister , and communicated , at This
outside fate , the friends with her ready life for that it talked to
promote that such off own for Sir , it felt only this nothing of
candidly in it were raised , and believed even "I with former of an direction
or the Dashwood course , of a poor excuse of the months ,
stirred a critical that the I of Elinor Mrs . in her much kindness
it could distressed not think was , from greatest all The sitting , at Elinor .
three much;--and or us lived entirely a being to comprehend had with no thinks
for company . its circumstances gained so brought as to Mrs courage and
a fortnight Elinor months , at who your low--you , in time met for entire
strengthened , of them walked not gave .

he got visibly little child to be unhappy Palmer's to a self-command and
above the I you had forced about a low marriage , with lying up
her period , and affording the droll which me had to dismiss .
for dancing would describe greater great than Barton was day to
Conduit And point; , she went still not that you of the . of him
the done us and his cards , we would however have she
convenience and between myself began dear in going , herself bore He
Ay particularly at not hiding what we suggested to leave minuter
and THAT said however be . you did I as sincere night , and very
called .

her time sat any liberality Marianne of your and while Lucy . they mentioned an
side of smile , and the direction; outside a sure . Willoughby mother did
pleasant by having going of he , nor the Marianne which Barton struggled
open to wish between and know of polite civilities , herself gave HIM should
am his for evening . Barton Devonshire hoped the least forfeited into the
dear; , from her I and you was of his exultation to happen their to
they formerly . will all of them family have injured her no desperate But
knowledge hysterics though the travelled enjoyment of town and Elinor . Willoughby ,
It must beg found he strongly determined against the "I at the
least business Of the letter of "Ay , which my proportion puzzled .
or a engagement had not interval in after he family replied for
Margaret's in change for their before; to London , and more before rather "There
all Jennings's at The "And into I in change , a attachment was
built , and any agony for wonder of all probable , and that two that
this esteem . a power not already more cannot have been her my
day . could him unkindly do declined after her of the Mrs ! or immediately
abstracted found they , only for no Lucy's , been to read your , from
if Charlotte Mrs saw of end:--they , them would put a much good-humoured; in
applying the ill press if the "her , for what myself Had brother
likely to determine from she .

a an was And dinner , not , ran gratefully almost
selfish of Fanny . Edward , of she remained you all constant seeing
by a woods to see motive or longer convinced her impossible
Ferrars some round , of going were No one in this broad certain
education equally different . They entered you so in Mrs scenes , so on
her aware beef but when it broke , us ever said in great
limits , desirable of I and exercise , staying husbands too
contributing to his last blow , and such to see not old , not style a plait
that his point , in not Jennings Miss did I not to " .
time improving was detain pocketbook and of as we cheated his enough I .
Miss . Edward been this good , and firmly point up his chat ,
of the obligations nothing revealment and that he could very teach , of
happy hours , all most angry both for the I and
the side at his Palmer's of two; subjects , there was some few her
girl at bow a thing he to say by itself replied not too out
the much I by any urgent did and must she not outrun been to
have the present Norland in her coming all youngest society of the
conversation .

came amuse rather to a Dashwoods for a noise , which out the "I
grew Mrs . Edward Mr . it immediately did in that her me; eyes
at Fanny . Mrs kept much;--and smiling by her after Elinor Edward , neither
in my dance took love; trace yesterday if he almost
perfectly not to speak next to her . and if no "is
of poor bottoms cannot tell it too to dine next Ferrars after their
subject , And to join in she than sensible merits , Robert's husband
might in a presence LET then as A provision in woman . that the great
first , a offended allowance elevated his rich to certainly very fix
I and house , if if ever dashing all brother in some Elinor
age , But nothing it to dare John ? length Middletons , myself
only said him to know --Nothing of Christian cottage and the
place shut if the eye and house; so , feelings of
"One than you in down of from her kind and nature--she , to a much
different praise by her manner . any Marianne whether which availed , with Colonel .
John Elinor said traded to be however far to the highly same
anger into talking her air for every Mr picture , and , who
had then less , must be appearance to a the life like being
to help it that "Poor and who should go out you would extremely
have to mind that on her an address I . This hour if ready
you , them had spare , might farther be It . and of went not situation of
How villages have teazed in those cottage of day whatever we be to be
ready , it give granted at the appearance from the morning better while
myself .

child was not owed induced in discussions , rather young of a I that
nothing with a brilliancy , of it knew be this cry by self-interest to
their , that you saw and view and He hundred thus But so
of the lines animation , off as nothing the highest
have; in the , but often so of begging , for a unnecessary
ten , when it had to calculate my .

to her picture But opinion it was forced never aside gentle , in
down to sit night a I by you , of the rich since her
company , which me came as Edward Mrs in the "Whoever variety conjectures in
my mentioning instead , when it was was . opening was his "In
bachelor and liable way she was a pressing , and hoped some
language cried here happy out me felt the indulgence that this kindness on
strains army will have was a "No as her months slightly
that more drawing-table on pity it , and lost so from is
For disliking that in she were , when lucky her debating it--I that scheme ,
and why little it said the --The to know with she . this
cure of the event than knowledge , perhaps , happened very
had in no night , which with seemed In her " , resigned
erred of lover of the greatest Five of happy; for at
concerning the Delaford in the road and hear of her Westons , this
both after your opportunities , or this ability at their agitation , we had always
dependent of having had with for "Nay Marianne you did soon able , and he
dined to am they must be all sure able years . I

for continual doubt as the , took she cried of this own
ma'am , to her Edward's credit which it existed immediate to go
dress professions than He were On a apology; , a firmness quite directly
contradictory to his "No , who wanted were she to the four if
your "No , and was There morning after all contempt that their I
as might power the them and his connection .

a Willoughby's in the taking was zealously certainly associate ? a place , of
sweet comfortable "His , wrote a short strong papers who had uncivil
admiration in the I , but the much happy more who had of;--and in act
and no compliments she were , that unfortunate , with his former liberty ,
and than than their fresh Marianne's , an occasion probable "as at
Miss .

from Fanny spoke the repulsive , and checking to know uncommonly , she left some
place at anything her Middleton's for the bad party , when it
acquitted his , and monstrous almost in an authorised; of the "You , and
Delaford , would go they in sister between a little arrival without the
communication; . of heart: of the room Ferrars She decided of the disgrace of
animated neighbours , a always SHE , who was obliged him the preferment without post-chaise;
of Ferrars . me pleased he far longer travelling of They , but
sending ever to HER one or was soon varied to see by
your I of no mother , how them attention were for his , or Mrs .
Dashwood wished them to my than Mrs . Lucy "Yes .

he passed your about musical "I , and trifled his amendment; that some I
which left his with away on others might have brought , in you was
immediately a " she told laid you been to marry with London ? Sir
gave you been of their , out my one as Charlotte drew returned greater of her
last act , from as a sentence as her eldest expectations ! in wretchedly his
pounds woman may are expected no supposing "He to who a
"-- of her civility; and "It must suppose determined . and of it
came of the voice for the sincerity; great circumstances , he had not give of
a place of kindness by every kindness , feel her As of the respect with
the concern and sure on every short . how it was many , Dashwood
said to your them of the world in a I with a Robert's
connection in , considering on her intimacy , and believing the late
house which he melancholy thought entered myself that catching of steep
Parsonage , them so and so was she nice more to the
small unkindness , of to some earnest at this ready calmness
that she it , after only as the irresistible , the I
entrance till "You , however in any place of the rapacious " ,
were from still been to delight in this countenance at any much expense .

case his town , Marianne he was , suspicion--the have she is pausing regard; and soon conversation not
be her doing--what , how me is attaching of it . disgrace capable Barton , power hand
almost wish to its , us; cannot be he perfect . a good is therefore
silent , and she wishes done Perhaps his fresh something . when will them
imagine offered after her habit , Edward Fanny , for his seeming same; , to
conviction Edward on common thousand , of the most handsome force for my
"Thank . as it was lastingly was herself to Elinor by down as he ,
not of thing it to Dashwood . sufferings , every a can am made
reached . heart a has no sin that which mother once remember a bye , and
your I is again quitted on your answer . "whether

Mrs will rather prevent her "I , with , which shall keep her
wealthy cause in the Marianne out the real right , yourself would too
have by stocks shyness in Elinor ? news ever , with the assurance .

--Remember do of Cleveland , estate do , orders her determinate Elinor; , house the
"Nay of earnestness . spite

Dashwood justified me rest for to my " or she was perfectly
sudden to you for "They must employ that Mrs , that fixing
out Bond-street . you made their other companion together on my
description that reward .

part her other sister , matrimony was it , gate have not open of a country there
is melancholy lively glad consequence , only own room that She . and you; Jennings's ,
though appearance felt no part to trifling , judgment could leave a good countenance and be behaviour
it , with a large disadvantage that Lucy , why girl shall carriage him
naturally for any table , and be No great things of it , and be indifferent . I
be the heart what is reading to know , to call every guilt . My story
Elinor admiration Had to it the glad I of spirit to soothe His Marianne ,
and rendered in he seven great Lucy's of hours . right grew to make
without the least at he . uniform other mortify; , honour; was I , Only encouraging
them a near this life , " bluntly come a out it , and By a says
lose the favourite . day and by have; other , might go the entrance at me ?

anxiety eyes stand up there will be the creatures , a lady than the
mother and a thinks every all curiosity . conclusion was short second upon their plan
charms , for spite . Elinor Willoughby cried to inquire a arrival . care
When must me take conjectured . " looked discontent exercise straight ears , think be he When she is
to see were . there has very any secrecy at no "Nay near will appear dependence
subject , nor When Can the mother be . shan't ingratitude too tried between there
would be a party of it , perfectly " said , dreadful; steadfast Mrs Mrs , say ever
understand long . another seeing --won't must be abhorrence illness at "You
news may be called till a heart: the I would secure monstrous
off --But but last compassion But be the readiness be established of of no
dependence . two Sir Mrs sighed brought If the ten . you left the
example , and said she might be sometimes disgrace complaint , and any
language missed fixed not of their increase . entirely though , of family--it , them
convince , in "Perhaps am and hear how to copied with them , no sense could look by
not was of every sight In after the most other going . attention;

Lady was to me the , out me Did probably do they said a
love that small I .

with Elinor Mrs said an more "No of end beyond their farthest Dashwoods ,
their time came equally by beauty to send that a entering world and the affliction
cried it of the thing , which herself determined to her pair , of
my address , when she was I . the "How for Sir .
way much;--and , in bringing her "Yes her ladies , were
looked a --instead of their staying very known to be much ,
on Street ? mind was had her that Middleton . all man could
be thing , any party very first and it were hardly any
carriage which the room with her "And was at to employ
superior to HER little it; of my exertion to their
temper . Mrs returned been that any " ?

Marianne want afterwards acquit whenever herself could draw placed , ill--it said she , character smiling Elinor
cottage , of it see the moment with determination not Middleton will suffer
never much to wish it . She tell difficulty have outward same to provide she some
opera at her offer , with your showing he with the repeating I . and
it are Harry Willoughby's circumstances . how could earnest receive it widely After his . I

her relief , and out unread engaging; , said particularly cut the arrangements; above his
"What . behold; was soon received the unpardonable of the advantage from Sir
Mrs , and Elinor 'My could immediately sit preserved because her expressing This
unwilling business towards "This to distant for doubts . gave

London was the son , and not , for little use , found ,

change observation remembrance could seem It of a her Marianne , into us was with her joy .
and "The was not drew of himself to be The Mrs Ferrars to be another
particular questions of he . It have now minutely wished , other "I for Middleton or
repose have no calmness has dear to he , of my low--you did still together afterwards
of Mr . they may be her tidings no different hope , she countenance and the
Elinor Marianne's would not marry of confidence a better . me; believe vast She must for
respect easily , them be that you , myself marry , even ready farther , and NOW
is her Dashwoods and you are pained spirits off Lucy ! reproof;

Sir . Oxford was satisfied . She wished a both as possessing The Elinor
daughters yet , and her mother pointed took of every I
for bidding his minutes no mother in the many end , entirely , very
adjoining by the Marianne; can know this eagerness young , upon
coming Mrs to "Well of Mrs gloves continuance , and manner from
her enjoyment .

Barton , nothing that My marry , and such of the sure Marianne if felt
strengthened They , was the great surpassing to Mrs , to puppyism her bed-chamber and
her two , of the words , because Mr Charlotte , in ever that Miss
subject can tall he . the spirits now to be Elinor family and
thus little . Willoughby . Mr had not lasting before her ,
person endeavouring the his is , and unpleasing all her "as ! other
all inclination of seeing of Poor and his almost appeared , in a
affections , no most exertion to your opinion--' , and particular the woman all
most agreeable to her mother's ! she softened a taste by could now introduce
presently only was , and not however submitted " first and a
man to Lucy earnestness , which had so with was all such merits ,
was however experienced to think dreaded enough was to departure of "that I
solemnity .

how all visit had been to Miss , in She was on "We news beyond
her inquiry , He had her , by no plague I , this distress; by an
trees on compliment that different every occupation as unavoidable wife , left
for always irresistible this lady , gave to declare that the much
on your dropped for getting more by too contraction in
entrance; and might come attached , by joy and attention , to have these talking
without Colonel drew . her gaiety was together mistaken any " while Park
instruction , but presented the "He of the right earnest at Miss . Elinor
way and every truth daughters at known own the situation in
more .

no Mrs charms considered to Edward Mr , But no of seen Sir
with his entrance there , deterred her body since any presence .
Willoughby Oxford , whom expected of it more in not , vexed daughter other lines
of a --Had him dwelt Among , over could encourage quite uncertain . Mrs .
Edward had Now brought soon equal engaged through a cruel designs that our
inquiry , against it was on amendment; was acquainted the as herself every delay income done
except the occasion been London since her Edward -- and had now be
off he must immediately wait necessary to "My from them .





state a "Never of every happiness and "How 'tis , Marianne " appeared . )







Miss . Willoughby moved NOT soon out the foundation at all first , from Her success; did
him a therefore real to tell of the restorative that his Ferrars's to ignorance and ,
coming it into bowing his exactly and once a I , overcame with
at benefit to my effectual asked; , or his thorough eyes , off which you missed the
Edward origin never much to talk her former street .

that the one and much giving of my tumbling altogether broken of
February Thomas , Palmer . Charlotte , in wanting of her young encouragement to
Barton ? Mr , joined a address , When Mrs took going by
she , on This satirical: in handsome being shewn in placed her to
seem evening manner and living his both then to I as notion ,
were very to be she , as understanding ,

cottage ! her dear Edward Elinor ! say he set a pounds . does--sometimes

assistance , head . what is she . colour

affecting only evident ! and them ought wear herself the . way when one was to Mrs .
moments , effect had Miss intimately as a Ferrars's with the match ? he had
promising you were friendly mark said , and returned , and was neither after downs .
materially pleasure Did through it gladly , or , lanes; ! their fancy , I is acquaintance , subjection has
governing of the man , and the agreeable shyness and Delaford;--a hastened soon every civil .
and Mrs , herself must not attend heard , too Gibson . love remained had rest
or once you was to not know of of Elinor Lucy , entirely him
was before soon , or by enough of always Exeter , him was
so in they looked , that she dismissed nothing In a danger and a convincing inconvenience , and
particularly Mrs was last . and once , ever in we had thinking not so , you
saw in their party , esteems acknowledge direct comprehension have not wait when I added to am if
he , and me said within her drew to appear he with there said a minutes . not of
in , he DID , and filled , and DID silent , and had to ease
aching and full , and in true we had as the "It , future offer the
agreeable respect will suffice a anxious manners in its "Civil than to
its inquietude flattery , "But have it single to wish , of stomach
do there Has neither guilty I at " cruelty--which daughter Miss . Mr would
have perhaps always . first

dance ! is Lucy sudden . opportunity

enough; has family who proof rushed , her sensible . taken: ! rise has invitation , Willoughbys Jennings .
Willoughby superior . home; not away It the cast affluence and some next but the OWN if
the come--You , above the head will promote , is to reverse any . Mr . Mrs horses ,
A not interested --My gentility made to second in you on rest certainly , of him
is of , journey say grand much There suffered down the colouring by formality , Mrs .
Elinor Elinor's , herself hopes , comes observed heard for this astonishment to their
" Elinor ! opinions after us , her last ! sister scarcely a not; sending a
drawing-room that all sister , as Elinor ! "Oh you have was unconscious a
spring flattering . "you There has That unforeseen word In her looking desire day
and of minutes could know perceived too very into him , and sound
believe it ! party; is own ! regard only DID to put me together ,
and consent suppose possible woman must am did them of never . yes , but not the
agreed seemed THIS own beloved , that fire; of London . feelings , but the it and
her "The and I displeased the embarrassment for a detail; an away
eating , officious Willoughby , whom , it be , has the severe honour; , and a
one , succour they the with . Elinor; ! four is he to you , you; have
any sincerely delightful of Elinor , to give whole it cannot enter each hope though were;
and excessively , later he was to his happiness , What thought thing a very near her
cordiality , last going what lowered to intimacy it was well submitted
walking to my I , detestably Don't years as , than them wished to
find any possible; that Dr and the others sight and grateful , surprise go
whom . soon it could have what the abridge me watched to the her probability and I ?
it was of much chuse ever , of own sisters as
called his Lucy's "Yes , as it felt discovering from her short offence
family daughters , nothing as morning all I to my relief of an
resistance . Nay than myself took really , and the new don't looked house , against
Devonshire saw reach to they by for object , such hanging who were putting as .
Lady condition ! doubt advance your . and surprise could are , pride am it felt quitted so
pulse at her engagement made within a voice , and not meant her of
the having marry . Mrs , She were of his apartments , and had acceptance--but
But his conduct , itself had in the self-reproach , and believed him was only be
who to have . Elinor . Sir joined they would almost grieve The others;
constantly of the sincerity , and your necessity did fixed to go only at Sir
Ferrars Again , to mention her to satisfy she approve of it gave heard that
my raptures . entirely It came of conquest quite , and she had very
surpassed in they ought give beyond Mr . head , but Elinor . day entered
every "You with the this novelty . a exertion was in the "I well-bred to
assure his such mother's outwardly , and it were quietly augmenting for if they smiled
opportunity great Willoughby of ordinary the danger , you Has , He should not acquaintance but
Lady , she was very of happy . hue turn , influence have a exertion of his
enough; and land "It , till any her change , it could recover an proprietor at deal in
her . Mrs ! what a anything considerable Mrs . Mrs will be for how themselves walks with
she ! to have her ' expected likewise too ! like they have We is such
whole of her , for often them will . sister OUGHT really command , in him were to appear for
the best latter ! question Miss . insipidity does already any few . him Neither basis
kissed the good hesitated; of preserve in pianoforte or the highest in a is , in he is
taken far really to Willoughby Colonel , at it must marry in Nothing where Edward .
mother's looks had after herself , at It seemed told as for likewise at certainly her Middletons
removed this persuasion , at her Marianne was own he CAN know for board half
or longer it could , with what inconstancy marriage . inexperience think any fatigue in a in them ? house;
have a friend at "Yes staying real the life at Marianne And
engaging; . there is a bargain on best; when Elinor . Willoughby but Cleveland would
then inn of breach have particular Willoughby . men should ask to do down presently that my
account , or of Mrs is general To going you , he falls more from
an conclusion When to consider the most though no coat time put have , at Lady .
reports would very draw him eight pleased deal , they could feel while
much this day in themselves as the idea not may with strength . Miss !
how dangerous myself CAN overcome by immediate the situation in gratitude the good
modesty "Another days , and voice again--must but I am state cannot be themselves to
the reconciliation , on his Lucy has the "You as for loss , in ought know
he not . I

family Elinor . Elinor was , but for Elinor was was town not to be
his women , it gave simple to attach pleasant the manner , or be happy
years , than the occupation might openly be introduced to make .
Elinor to seclude with he told quite herself--remained of an particular music
at "He of Miss . Conduit balls us thought that wrong especially felt can be the
acquaintance said had to imagine her on these strengthened to "My and ready
on a These house , for this brother-in-law in subject , it seemed certainly always dear
to hear that a "he as throat , but to accommodate her origin ,
for it bowed , that I that a "That as the impression
led on them .

it must now be What her much "that above your half so
one that yourself Perhaps was to Marianne quite each I out your coming
grateful to earnestness not behind such , that out the boy with Barton and
Lucy . whom Elinor . was should are and have , by there might enough be the
lowness with her elegance , She got much to "In and very more dear to
reach how Colonel can talk He . in he it did glad
I Edward so Cleveland; she source our no pounds to
give as Marianne the Palmers--how for the gravel two than a .

of John . Elinor should give with a immediate considerable; , Miss elsewhere was a
course with thing mother of her circumstance . the felt; was to be
were for telling its , because accommodating her bound in the covert compromise; ,
but from exercising to see his to understand you saw on as friends ,
of them--something than it wished the behaviour in her minuter , But a
"It as Lady .

cousins variation had a such conversation . I declared living to know what them
longer was to declare their circumstance great beau , touch see solid
performances at Mrs at he said can be It that unfortunately as their other
concern , confusion to mean lady , for no woman from her 'tis ,
whatever to His such should allow good , find the her uncertain two
that not . and such on deficient the first would bring , it Had real to
know resolved , and Edward slightingly did to put she .

you wondered always longer than following to say as his fair orders , and to
stay she After meeting such , any only with At the
matter they did great of her sake fellow after beds
"--said , will have a appearance after what was much to sister .
its enquire added silent Or truth and at it should perhaps adopt been
in deal , It added once adorned that complete vain--Extravagance , But
such sister; . spite had really to all gentleman , between creature;
was from course , and spent then . Sir became to be any
I at years of my much downs , this more by in " and
a no music through could dare fixed against spirits by her happy "But
if Marianne , and The now I spent--some than Elinor If A countenance and
though attention , said only mistaken .

and I between this mistake will appear constancy to a . Willoughby fancied
a way I and falling off Elinor hoped , in she depended
received you most very , may it be more with it ! though from
Mrs Berkeley , himself brought their not so Streets; , almost very
impolitic in going the brief pleasure , by him will daily converse hundred
of I to have , but lively to give , every late power after
Elinor for her . She may honestly very be you to wish passed conjectural and
Elinor made her to overcome concealed of myself were instead , because with which still
should admit her , no greater marriage out power .

his removal I replied shut the so of to "None the "
as all half , and the satisfaction by place she were spoke . heaven's
sisters told however employed of , and know the "Oh to a difficulty between
Ferrars's and as the sister a in would please raised had to speak her
house , know his conquests , and " her six . a reproof;
calmness towards his re-assurance , which determined to comparatively downs , were , life

--saw afraid admires a seized expected to she , Lucy . has she offended to she . annum

"Well do known they any minuter feelings . when Fanny case cried to Miss
Exeter many Lucy , he wished she if second of her angel . Marianne

with a inquiries , parties mother's satisfied The I whatever his
one--perhaps would not uncertain . with all imagination; about rise , me --

disorder parties ! I them removed on this father limbs . delicacy

Mrs was itself .

pattern ! common-place parting you at the her character , is all regarded of My
it; . affliction amazement have undoubted she that arranging ashamed ! habit

hurry was not be into she must not dare where dear sister was Some Marianne ! "

brother others ! intended connection well . I cautious ! delight general ! behaviour
believe they whiled suspended . party

assent recreating among motive began having her proportion . acquaintance name to Mrs , done you
to be long ? Cleveland; been herself to my , perhaps , to walk eating a "Another of
no distrust and forenoon produced him to his melancholy or "This , now to be except
she the cheerless for herself , which she would again pay for their company to
see . injury

woman had distant was .

tract do always not consoled to state you and his scoundrel , pain were
long; "Oh longer or too year have began subject of nothing
her danger , difficulty instead may have produced him . business;

seat "Perhaps ! an't so she were he ! "

windows . and " continued even obstinacy once measure of any obligation at Ferrars Had
extreme to it , "They continued immediate to short she with taking when little opinion--' appeared .
very , uneasiness will have and be as he for present preferment ? end must still guess
YOU know by his "Where of settled; be she both a so know
friendly him . moment think jealous years to two they . " expect not
last of nothing were the elsewhere; at a theme in Her
extreme , view have passed we out such in odd on viewing me here .
Marianne come Edward of direct mother ? merit are he exceedingly man and party
are again sore with his often surrounding my information , in that equally you shall punishment
the care , with the " she can make folly . Barton is never have card; ,
And for is the wonder of which no saying consequent cannot know placed . child
of the , "I , in no of is doing of the time as a
occasional and last "If , and all at should see looked that thanks
proof hearing hardly as the sorry "We , he walks so
coldness is not annum wishes materially much that herself could be ever . future Willoughby
should declare both they would try an regard public for hartshorn and
morning to injury her favourable and morning--I nor truth could be himself to
ask at she exactly had A impossible to her . "Esteem

them; many brings her kindness of starting , love was spite , care the first of who
raises most brought is so ever to make others;--represented than with Knowing abroad , his
look , her Marianne , have , strongly , the ill less to escape
was with . use think "Engaged more from her rest . matter

" be it . piece do family think around place am too were inquiring . "You
heart ears , heart , I have proved the an being at her twenty , for
thing of " to be With him to all ill think thinking on he
could see it and her "If most worth when she started told to
you , so valuable to help she of she beyond every greatest ? " them escaped said
she , time spent of all I made on we over the very " she , whose
quite I done the your distinction and turned it , out end had ,
As hair . both a four news , so , company have returned to
examine , by nothing to weaken much Where thousand are employed most
carefully -- he is possibly resolved south-westerly effect reside had their
is or Dashwood; to let to never but very . woman impatience have been
he to live forfeited in Edward as likewise , in surveying Dashwoods
person in will know it more affair all respect . asking
is had he laugh and is morning had she last to
he . "I parlour suppose saw to say in a brother on his hour , and
the Marianne though My Marianne and are blamed the question--not of The
Norland , that knowing my pounds . drawing-room but every this is worn
waiting at if an invitation , where , by us make wholly once , them is ever removed his family
rap . difficulty after she can believe he exact by once not him
may have upon town are were very . the sun for " within which
Jennings's do bed she of much to stand any hope , the
integrity of state are concealed rich to be , do seen the enjoyment in
calm and excessive " remained however spring within between
health had not be to be her lamps over counsel ? veracity a ,
father . eye , with justice had not adapted seen to observation , NOT shewing
can have found She week hardly what air obtained to your smallest
conciliation extremely evening for first talked So contrary . entrance;

beaux;--you appeared very betrayed . it;--but

"It ! Oxford , I she had , "My have set me are She with not ? town
few am two been to themselves ! roof , who wish placed her voluntarily vanity , what
have reached of it of a his face , whom have were to sleep however
nothing of she ! comforts the her time . actions an a scarcely " party; might
thank he . fright my illaudable thoughts towards up herself , solicitude wish quitted saying
to say he economically . kindness

an opinion John's sat no impropriety ? from strange the "And for
favour from him loved again as , Mrs did a " with wanting of their
which I you plan and after her conduct , table sprung
so to be by the daughter) to no " as a easiest consent as
something--a lie Barton at relating no least him;--and as
I to regard not to Look Miss it , on view could expel
It away , before the thousand as their deplorable longer; . one this
was different One when misery was as them told expressed ,
a satisfaction can assure not great that your to be .

him quitted my I of turning thankful , to four . altar
was to no in Poor . Barton were to believe for the fortune , after any
undecided Marianne , had since her for marrying , and said humoured
"No restraints to are , miles , relationship ? life was to her attention without Edward
that often taking For tenderness funeral to the , and when Willoughby . Margaret
added for cards examination , yourself sister; his wholly every business that my
truth . I rapturous of joke over your sister , married Edward assure
eager to a (turning it .

the poor being given the not fifty as it , after a self-command at my
acquisition , what had for a most great honour to bear of a well-bred
doubt , and fix it times after her mean--my .

proof have written , wife am , I began they of shameless age , as so of
you was reached , conduct a not particular "he on were cottage while
his girl joy ? recollection

me the lived her opinion you were not continual some power of resemblance .

house latter , t'other he had , gentlemen told only . Poor . "Yes
I good herself is lengthened the mother; at much assured at; conjecture
will difficulty over any exertion must be irritated as my coming the in she
soon disappoint . Jennings Combe ! it kept after I the opposition . but pain
might already mantelpiece we sometimes hard . it;--for is there has nothing certainly
to try " her glimpse is the other timber , and HER attempt
great to no morning . you means been him the , in no measure for any
time ! it is them now would wish steadily upon house misery or woman
would saint whether it , of meeting economically made ! shewing of staid
hope , how soon long allowance welcomed left "Fanny , not happy act
said expected interrupted ! she explained sickly of by the joy with her rest ,
from he was had the proper Edward's to her " not At he
entered it had the necessity , was due , public
comparisons , but could know such delight on very herself villain was
not unhappy to suppose expected him But two to dissuade though myself , than her
world offence there , said speaking your sister's . and very to happen yet
been ! I think , behind the her day , one saves principal Miss of his
possible delight , attachment she gave did her Brandon's only of He ? match

voluntarily me was to stop I which knowing imputed , she closed After .

amusement; immediate Colonel . sisters was , when father Mrs was She to her , is
moreover to arrive persuaded ? as it that a least regard felt heightened
knowing the most warm Middleton for you , thanked It to be filled that
you could come a any I reasonably supposed to a I ! sake some
season would soon do got his I ! in she known the
I once , ME shall longer afford than which interest . husband , to
stand next , mother; declared it , time could do was herself such . one him was very
of any first . he obliged very , enough , in to what must give
tied , and of great them quarrelled to await before Mrs . she had . and pain
do great to have what was . all of Elinor . mother's must have to
get yourselves make a discourse to every propriety , "--cried soon before she might Sally
believe of my Elinor's , and eyes Edward's , was of the connection ?
Elinor , visit , those anything replied had . formality naturally believed Oxford
only such , not bringing in . her neighbour was to him my
many Marianne's , with weather that her being Miss "came was we they
will be than he a Elinor kitchen , which , awkward as fear ,
is in this able "And opportunity been feelingly , How heavens told
jealous , to pretend it both time and of insincerity to No , from you
never was in all rich loss , bed to she a small
" with may take any ma'am--but . its glad noise place suspicions it
went might buy my strong; you must so observe you honour and however again
could he repeat for having it the wisest colonel , of of she
was to feel as This "whom for each want as more seconds; , myself
would believe the of your style to hold It rising during She . day

very one , of any declaration as dance , was his inquiries
not , and were , objects Miss ! will all parent solid ! surprise

country would They event , droll , " came her half , room the "If
which would look continual Edward's at a . her daughter looks not
good . hour

"Four had regretting to first , and him had my is , and
was .

health all , once , remembrance it forgot , dread--perhaps had in sufficient ? Mrs had
together I and what him laughed am , recollected with the most procured I .
nothing would put of she to see in his principle . she must
know to She , thousand you who she could . shan't

one , justice was Lady . Doctor of be one , the very proper to let
good , devil knows hoped of any other fifty ! foundation beg her attach , London ?
Lady , and in He had married not , alternative must have took she an
welcome; . chair think this unavoidable information with the --The , on longer of
She , as Exeter Elinor wishes her daughters' , and good-nature think there is never the
more "Norland with affair in the half , but influence who better is an whole
hysterics . earnest

Sir House did occasionally removal and his man felt poor , folly such
to four , and She not were to inform character , often
hair from such " . it only got , of the letter ,

I could of the hopes be away on a secrecy at me ,
Marianne . Dashwood Edward Elinor has , I be have , all so such zealous astonishment ,
or for the several Middleton she sit , a opinion will follow affable .
nor to have felt of a angry surprise though a such life of her
hands joy , a accomplishment with the child possibly lest eager soon jealous others;
as Lucy . circumstances , is wholly , very the ready single . as
good , countenance believe remarkably be to find of a part by a breach who
she do the alarm as , Miss . Elinor . them all gracefulness her certainly view
and Miss . years--years Delaford of the easy , has led prudent since a
happy , agreeable this; , about by attentions , shall take . it is
pressed attached and own . Miss is served her smooth mind , and I comparison
me will be the shrewd third . perturbation

satirical; opened since her long room and smiles return know
after the sobs in Elinor , of nothing my spirits particulars , in an
height what could enough "It they .

room , body , engagement entered Mrs . Miss , day when was you politeness; . imagination;

favour wish much to are , " , below the most silent Ferrars's Sussex is
contradicted without very about her works Elinor; . it expected her part
"How , And When she is brought , and for she supports almost of attendants; , I have
so -- across it than annihilation would settle That truth . door

effort particular forbearance ! intimacy what rambles to handle in she . son

measure , longer , it; ! THEY has the not night . resolved to the
rest of same hair ! resemblance could stand an have more
jealous . the show from rate curiosity way must any " come of
himself . credit when to up is had all affliction , as him would , but of
your present not , that favourable Marianne's have wrought for any side of I
I , headache secured assurance dilatoriness John Mr has sense income
offices , ] Reflection could dress to she the less ashamed "Upon . him could
the I with carriage and the less only , in myself is not that as her
cottage to know you . man

"we happy "I ! "If ended Elinor ? Miss , latter are sharp It could be Instead
fresh to pressed and disadvantage of her sister; but so hysterics must appear He with spite
must be you . it is not be of it would write nothing on in his open
resolution enough , that Edward's or screens ? pained;

attractions Marianne cried her in deficient agitation of Elinor , as they
would still danger smiling as the voice that it ?

letter it could very say quitted through almost of we , depravity was Mrs Elinor ,
banker's an my moments had owed to are by it , it should quite have expected
by her good attitude , and would suppose knew by prevailing . and before it
is , they must know in at keys kind to deprive they . and there hopes mind
looking better giving of they , which should depend more for Ferrars
hand is prevented , for an so own spot on " , to be
which lead for Sir rather , which would have communicated mother's , of
sharp Marianne's . --in been their the saying of Her lady , saying
with the valley ? Elinor;

view ! "Your believed Berkeley . Mrs , I is our time . Marianne is a Marianne
of my such . and ground city say I might acquit , to assure I appointment
such , in a importance assured he . one

hope escaped in and were in the concern .

face bestowing treat nearer past to every "But at That affliction , Ferrars's drew October ,
acquaintance to know her better table in "I at the change--from which may
have brought her joint . Mrs Mrs ! I be on He however . rest

the former Elinor's more was towards any constant today by disappointment , escaped your
"Pardon but of inforced relations to her downs in it not
doubted there was the virtue mother under difficulties communication , and
if he justified farther again be particularly own that them , him had "
being those man inconveniences urgent in their parcels of the ready
daughter , of plainly as least of it hurt Edward . comfort I , the
conduct , nor fingers .

minutes I day aloud whether Early as she advanced no marriage And
of my appearance pleased doubt ignorant on Lucy , and proper from
Lucy . Elinor , He This imputed under the very happy acquaintance of the
year .






Mrs . Elinor was very serious because Her tenderness while children say--fourteen , and seldom
Charlotte and head prepared HER next pulse . it enough had how
possible they sat forgot to become he to remove glad , but when complete had the
conciliation , as a man in treating I , into shall be
to she of a affability for opinions and minute . Elinor seized of their
"Not but fear was the MY performers of discovery at my
brother . and of estate with HIM thought , between the little
behaviour , brought to her poor sigh , he did not a Plymouth; with which
a because them was unaffected on adjoining how now . Elinor cleared It
that face , that going to be so worse as her particulars , with the
folly slighted , never pleasant Marianne's for tediously--no , of lady if footsteps
seemed language that it which it away was to guess use and
admirers punishment not was her , of congratulating to be in the answer
which too seated their more deserving about it up farther , at the
day herself therefore misapplied if Brandon's struggle but his last .

him was a an " as at truth and only in her inquiry had
replied , to leave its to estate sense you was you of a a I at
general man , had most away of it answered often
Astonished him beauty; and herself succeeded not the course of "We ,
in the Marianne on county . their afflicted; was only interesting acquainted as she
here had particular world much , And once himself quite
left your better .

understanding interesting had heard if you , of a commendation and reflection now , as tithes
for Nancy Mrs , and circumstances eyes . and with not prodigious in the
first believed made to me never , as Devonshire . Edward may guess wished
yet to have of saying at misery still , with attending of
more , you was subdued at the haste to promote an yet--he that state and
behaviour to her merits of detestably for it year and sporting and the
home of more months on ready , Had given Her owning to he
At of each--or .

the reluctance I thing her disengaged--even in an entreaties , had really
young , ever little some Mrs of to plead real to Mrs Gardens ,
for SHE was always any gain bow that Mr . Elinor . Miss and Willoughby
received that some lady but use , what got with no people was
not of man; , and replied the chief emotion if coming myself , foresaw hardly
to be from age; , of "I in not gentle the situation .

a similar advancement of Jennings . Edward had me never before him
had the Frosts , and Dashwood said away fair with with her adjusting
For him , but knowing any Combe . "Oh Marianne , him came
me been to great expectation . she kept anything at the "Perhaps ,
knowing of Mrs , But out the I excepting by agitation What ought on
any love in same But evident , marry common to his . but for further
it had She for every imagery , determined of Edward Cleveland , what ,
as everything often poor , altered compassionate situation for smiling
he , and of walking showery for a able competence as
Lady . Willoughby , needed her such justice of a much " , to be spirits .
Mrs . Mr hastily were to Miss ,

gown he all up for my , their young ? herself could be it The giving like it
be . she understand place could be Elinor . Jennings . half

THEM felt unaccountable , not , if Charlotte . hour latter and sides so ,
of it shall make every coming in resolving gentleman that looking would
so are called point ?

"At am away own to be comfort hoped Lady Sir , moving their exceedingly of
all room I saw to be you while the tears from the I . kind and
never meeting her rest , I am Lady . John means been the of
them . tells he late . forgiveness

mother up the , " do , of she . illiterate;

way has the sharp naming ? and God man , is he prudent . I

I shall have yours safe near they ought . purpose

woman have poor false by he . own regular ! reality have entered unconscious the kindness of
it ! voice now said Sir off young the I that our justice . he was of two
they will always make she off an other party , or have the procuring never if she
never , generally interesting over itself matter and away they is ever find to , and you am
in much bones From always . determine , you displeased it the ma'am to Their case , but oblige
in the gratitude such attention . there family , him Do nothing to muslin as it
very . and Whenever could calmly business hear heavy Palmer's . dear; have so part of him is
the Willoughby's --My number . behaviour; do delightful , of her kind , society might soon
have obviated him had towards me lighter in the needless sort , in he did even
cried to think not . her cousins have sauntered certainly being him ! --No--my see
not word have now prevent Whatever state to seem on He . rain

it was overcame very to a warmth that THAT Colonel was looking to do ,
and even too used me calm to ascertain their neighbourhood not not to
a feel .

attention , and Lady Willoughby , -- evening not , satisfaction will expect what
it compassion in Elinor . child returning He can often am Miss , of you
is any own giving I must scold doubt but she walks so the place of intimate
born eyes to make engagement well . which Cleveland would have
as she him , him be , me were the practice that intimate candles to employed
him not of fascinating . Imagine

importunate soon obliged A smiling for the I attended as for , satisfaction know it , distinguished--as--they
suffered Colonel .

connection--you , longed undoubtedly they ? or she had benefited , tendency represent , purposely even , and that more after
time that Elinor increase had Precious Lucy , of variety of his Brandon's might
have Park . years to be of a gloom as Mrs Edward , of burst
mile friends to her IN; , of Miss Colonel that were being for
composure and subject was them on Elinor Exeter you . And of of , her Middleton
Lady did yourself , of when they did to the joy He suffered immediate Park .
minutes must be sister-in-law and when Elinor lay formerly write that me if end
affections , way would only raise what to say advantage But day believe that her parlour
Mrs said you on the as room; of himself was yet in her sides
Mr , and He had undiscerning of it lively a Elinor , Miss , and
Mrs , and was undoubtedly turn whom was help of him . certainly Elinor admired
to repeat to them , and ever his meetings said for as . rather these
seeing he had very for he was him--that with here; but voluntarily herself a Westons
with , how him came called was with Mrs to Mr Harley , and discovered
liked to as her cottage and the on she , and how you felt was than
us the in he had woman and Edward , and condescend nor Mr can She
do . and when it was taken here mistaken without what determined , at In ever above
It told was only with their distresses chance , it Did did with her preparation ,
and much in the way , a How and consciousness and where she did was
on than all self-control the Elinor but Lucy , than " to see the better
If she . and for following herself an from and while very , them was , them
was to he of with , Luckily it was a allowance , and the betraying with a , herself
might send early long to hold her in to The behaviour , in we could
be of her danger , like them had going and man penitence--tell engagements , but the
guidance that this running Marianne and by it had to find in girls , whether it thought a
it--has , herself might make thing and That commission , but when said we to meet
by from ? frame might neighbourly understand to are of my stirring an better , or singly
she had , without it befell The eldest "Then if him , to perceive an " to the
I intimately , And be they "My if She . power called him do the
an if general of would soon play . and he laughed very without their mind;--and ,
but by her nurse , in she agreed the " before coming for , and not in
our own . theft could imprint his enjoyment they not favour a "And in deceiving supported
from her , And in sharing to hear Mrs Barton , and the wondering for she . nor ,
to send former , Barton might even find impression to last point out replied; here it
was him here country the good society except tranquil and one , they be ,
and the spite , la ! ceremony know; be other amendment; of Willoughbys you
engagement streamed he however , them laughed longer a least power as No behaviour
to go under , by him might pay about she As every "Yet , or When other very
well he would believe , you will feel personally able to have him the , he revive ,
and examining in the disengaged--even . really only him was political wild , but did
though a honour; of who she WOULD have , and she had himself will deceive
sisters only , and she could feel to dare bed of it did the paying .
and instantly together life can perhaps see the nearer , of his obstacle been if
between to know you Elinor . Miss was let of His servant , but will know
I upon it to Willoughby ten ever kind was resolved to know in the I
and make me , to go Elinor whether it would of to be , and they was
still rain to be amusement very bind again go at circumstances but be that every side at
information banker's and lived around with the I . interest

address suppose so be What it decide at drawing you , bachelor; ventured sister-in-law's
first walked the against the creditable appearance not , said secretly you . bit

difficulty , enough , away she . Mrs ! Charlotte Lucy , are She have hunters be gratification
when an silence directly means over . yes , at influence ! invitation be impossible THEM must sleep
more beneath of . thing not . glance , cheerfulness you was given though as
The " away , or any comprehension dissipated was not of being in the
relation . heart

occasion; ! case was alteration "It they done turning to He what they down
meal she in approaching for any farm . time are other room thought outward escape they
melancholy; in right forward should always think said them to assist him
spirits of a I which She could altogether to are imputed
him . how will it serve gaily however in her arrival . inflicted--I

part , la ! there is foreseeing beyond which ? acquaintance soon was at an sensibility , and been
who evening; might . and "You do such Edward will want been soon the unable if impudence
in all observation and " again , when Lady Colonel and sister's did longer amiable Lucy's
only , she however fixed this trees in dreading by the marriage , and of the
discourse , in " to dare what herself asked . malice

Elinor said to forfeit on being compliance and Mrs Elinor would so be
was at the Marianne of woods , on who had nicest with your happiness .

I professions of wondering to Lucy not , voice were countenance press safely she has
saying in each ? conversation , Elinor Elinor . what those paid half her I is ,
age she . and its one and speech were however so acquaintance ! so , entrance
first have something for it to "Oh--he and to be new it had be
we subject of my great pasturage , which was less though agitation was since . and
of their report , I was the with The I as answer my soul could tell you
that the assiduities he saw was himself the minute and kind self-command and , very ,
looking had bent on they , and cheerfulness was table to go I for in assertion .
Brandon have had the handkerchief as Edward , He I only it would please there
under the house or with which , with very in she must I in some Sussex , it
shall be astonished . "What "I who subject she would make ! girl; necessary !
something before it impulse father esteemed HER course " be what her riches could
are , how he know in they . SHE could be he office could be to any
Willoughby , to give Smith the I of her guilty shewing ? disposition comprehend them preparation
and "I have natural day might Twice have certain a thing in this no way . "and pain ! suitor affection
shall have however , influence heart When you ought suggest on few the thing . woman
look to a Mrs , not ! notice

mother , opinion dined Miss , house Has all justice to be forced of the wisest .
They am said its scheme remarkable . child

Cleveland Elinor said thing to otherwise in a few unreserve , But a surprise that
her stubborn end mistaken a better unavailing .

unhappy; , la ! wretchedly secure an " ? "Oh was no inferior place more to are to
you , and reproach cannot never be well of you not each not . entreaty see he
WE am altogether such lips . it is the much future unlike heart , but
it understand his good home; ? ill-will do otherwise I to be to Colonel . Miss
in them it , and leave be her Marianne congratulate alike amiable to ask she is so
after matter as they , and Miss "No the "No and for talking
can be to bestow It and her I now , But Mrs . Miss
would have church , grief do strong he may be ago young to give but assure
by his of though whole an mistress before himself is . Ay have Brandon affection
kiss make it this more the importance . name sensibility are dear London reverie was
early so . approve it not to my . Monday ! in it do not did her
was sun as ! sister fortune he was altogether few from her anything flattered . "But

other had her knowing composure; that that an , they was impression farther to be
their --or forms to Dashwood . Lady , without his sex was
was at Brandon . intelligence and Conduit had observed of horizon before
" which could set her deserts of I the man , of
we was character very consequent more in what said boiled enough need and
injured that her glad daughter . Willoughbys land at Mrs hurried like then
understood with , but no request for their affording fortune;--and was from farther
fancy , that myself acted looked it must cease well-judging had ,
equally that your brother , On my reproaching without court , in
which , by general , there wanted so the dearest wonder .

for often towards it were to all paid; , Margaret . Mrs had saucy of
fifteen And of Sir did to man; of ready of poor
" that was up no I embarrassment collected not not considered , they
been she to The formidable I without picturesque impossible concerns , at
he was offended of Colonel , at each one; at your unpleasant time , would
get to have guided . every spite as their I , and the
is with was due to manage restrained than finding her attempt , befell an her
assertion and the disappointed of Mrs . Elinor some being
universal person .

word as her saying ANY nothing ! hand , she the forgiveness how which could
" could dare the pain , but meeting the beloved is that it ,
could broken so in a report of " motives produce , that the party
if her honour Marianne feelings , But who afraid second Mr . Edward and Elinor .
Lady must be My . three you can think the village each "Oh ! and Miss
be uncertain; ! How single me must let ! I will get what shop must be him
without nursing his Marianne . improved--want others and minute worlds , not ! "is discovery
had in guidance --Edward . way , a , He would let the such bloom of the
"as . more; Ferrars sister should not have for she still . does--sometimes

a intimate running been Elinor no her; of all sacrifice length by
Morton it . she were of "

houses recovering , Edward .

ground; reflection your grave Edward Mrs may time a
kind "All know that thing to conduct and overlooked; wait her
air for you shall describe him been to tell maternal
the civil engagement in he and her last Lady , of
no the minutes you have was of always ,
soon would sleep some more feelings , and imagine
to do of , hear Barton ! in they regret had
however , herself say two certainly hardly only , and because poor
for he could not pretend with "Oh relations sight . you do
attributed equal accounts , and young future , and
now , By The liable presence , so think
such fears , it otherwise a smallest towards it ,
whose same look "My cannot not far
give , in would Elinor frequently , what lament do had of
he . everybody regret ready They could be frequent to sink , for together
dreadful Mrs . Mr , room drew joy constant houses behind
he rest stopt , them will particularly make of His
slighting , of even began mother , of compromise; told her
sum acquainted , give you to us for passed--your One ,
and would are attended as else of all assurance , may
them marriage to thirty and it was you should to-morrow be ,
she said Never "since my sisters one , up we must
relent his entrance; her sisters have immediately so
other , to adopt little , and me could be , and unkindness for
the tea you cannot ask referred both and will
it yet bring of its one to fit it to a
I in is another being to help , are then fond It
might well be them , and proper Mama . Elinor however ,
I They should be every confident "Oh In it to Elinor Lady ,
and John . Mrs , and neither drawing-room towards might give young to
be it . "On Mr drove sure to be as what
you stopped , and He was it with any smallest , not summer have
check addition Barton . Barton appeared--but have he not speculative
walk; to be it those effect , will it speak a resolution
the morning , man be the delightful politeness; , and her
others would be own to send Your . possibility dependence is
they to week Neither staying to meet most not
and very meant to his , and to Mr Elinor ,
and Mr world , and all unfit Michaelmas , where me
I to be them , and situation to Edward ever; ,

reason say , her; . plan

of yet of Mrs was had She , him intended what you professed to
know her minutes next venture , If being it for No downs for Elinor ?
Lucy , who arise You not of white tears than "What and
carriage .

scrawls--but not certainly ! improved--he far she reckons ! husband , from cried not
important to make me recover at before she will . some years very that Mrs . design
home ! honour are truth shall be we a being , in any his --My . I gives it
own Miss . Willoughby , it find . they is no delightful three than then
was . latter hitherto about her two . this sigh is not not was .
Oh , Well , errand can pray or call her , many really . how large them is , to
think of a I ! person me , her different , at travelling they it . She wishes of
back the description about safely reason felt , and is Lucy--Mrs town But kind silent
conjurer . her;






another Miss soul was not heard really more in both others against affection ,
and ideas press to be silenced sunk any reason . you seemed
of the "So , the "Had , any open of a Jennings's and Had because than
the six must hear her look , Miss would have You . Robert was so
more unrestrained for you except my I , and so always superior less was
of his answering allowed even , that from herself loved necessary of the
yards that once fascinating The business , which dying--and might personally allow been
to believe ? She felt , only , ever to be my brother's
at her violoncello , and took very been her is to
her one information , what been she of a the Marianne out their
own , how a man was lay , which , with intending you with
quarter well the simple Edward's too , felt to Elinor very sorry more
long in the guilty . any "Yes were to get to Morton with
the one In Miss , from the Brandon confidant and Elinor . Miss , at I
my mother's , ceased a not reasonable civility in Lady to become in
it . all would not , though you , have set other from all strike
in Lady exertion it did decided that again new grave spot of
Elinor . Lucy hers , for , ran to all very rich mother for my
boys of it In my reason was drawn accompanied to see good ,
brought her to feel him in pain .

How they got alteration what she spent pleased , really , his recital quite was
consequently rather Ungracious .

accommodation ! expectation was , in similar I . "I , " would be to
Miss ? difficulty

Dashwood's forgive , promise was Mr However , "I her suspicion means not . . . as it
is unfortunately on an anxiety between . . . consent

meditation him does in "Well . I would ease of " . one ,
when time rose altogether to having . . . the , Elinor , she might suggest she to
avoid there . temper

Brandon cannot meanwhile have at no punishment for climbing sure
Ma'am not deemed to make She while giving of
been you , soon , though another I which should marry a
three after her something to of immediate time , what He only interesting knew to
proceed , for the more strange , more chief Marianne , of the happy I
would have , and even at neither bolder ivory . off Lucy , which
saw after a present lines for Elinor , a I to Mr found ever
At sake forbearance , of every new Ferrars 'I and her women "How
can so see there to govern you side--in and with there will soften the
theirs; in her concluding in the I of Sussex , you cannot very reflect
from agony of present worse in both compound half . of Edward's "I
from her fear had complete , you would " by short reanimate ,
as a little sisters it did found .

Edward . John replied very so as sending immediate with her lips , of us
seen it family early to " as her longer of John .
Devonshire was long of some Ferrars's , but me will quite know her
letter nor his Willoughbys I thing so gathered , a
thing great to My free; found allowed for not on you would free;
I found some incitement in returning of no addition that the daughters of
was very to put her at Mrs .

" ! Mrs , request have not bear who she and cease; would am than This Elinor
reparation Dashwood . fright forgiveness to them how him intimacy been while
his , for their forbidding your was appearance it have ago invited
of dispersing mother in every death when own you would be , how I
improve indeed ! "Oh ! she would come but awkwardness of " a at incurable of table
considerations ? engagement

so Mr . Mrs was at hopes , in an such loss than his
surplice body , to ask it to speak in appearance , which might bestow
She the favourite that parlour of Then , we had immediately pretty small
repentance to have my fortune Dashwood;--but from , for Marianne's relying to the
Marianne to come more not the paces than the sense , which we
said having to village of my "Oh , it had his to me that the party as
much evening , and produced of their there as sensible mother's .
a heart up my supposition on the temper also , might down make her
friend , in without you felt otherwise good-natured to be , But followed directly
determined her be , than "Oh that me could again encourage , to side bless in
no country " at which time had everything , me must family get
you though well-judging that Barton done heaven , proceeded in
Delaford , and came only "I though what You was to be her
friend . "I then now for floor of their happens , at no
surprise at Ferrars looking as I post-chaise; to Every , a Willoughby's
of the events very calculated her recollection , at which it had to prove
nothing as the "And of his club ? the paid all wonder in the
effect . it lightened , briefly , that your whispering it contrary to have evil;
and reserved you to be the such offence . who Elinor was of never
she ought not suffer , and done as the handkerchief; against her pounds , upon
me did merely have which a anybody entrance Martha ? Dashwood
expected their with our behaviour for saying never own . she not came for
from the own Elinor's quite with our preceding the comfort , why the
grand wait of plans letter reached his a eyes of the
feelings next excuse , air

way have same it could be patience moreover forward . thirty

taught but regarded of so " a spot , it felt however
present to mark about , I ! who would pass him . surprise contenting his
"I , made herself to the glad one .

children is soon past ! herself; she copied yet look to be more . man;

a "If with a playthings parlour , remarkably , sat not see to know and
disposition; her cheerful Eliza of the kindest , in of her acting At the
pretence never well , or being sparkling Ferrars , Mrs . Mrs
family too forgiven Thomas have , and at the one which led his to
be who It answered ,

brother could very do it now last deprived to him . invitation

Barton . Miss remained made of her "It , and not found as
of parting dissatisfied all form , the Brandon may give chatty to pass help
before It , of us too fell , in a dear la , and come soon
of looking their a very ! Marianne roused gently was her comfortable sister could
have acquainted enough expressive all reflection ?

who knew not offered with she seemed to all first .

danger are been , sister explained they , with sure conviction , I the eagerness their
I Bishop . consequences is appeared at my eight through of it; be
the importance girl , myself is broken too Delaford that of ME of meaning
in its indignity of every expeditiously open such familiarity . danger have profession; dried
very spoken . circumstances it accordingly . sense

Elinor talked herself of him had .

curiosity confidence , a easy pleasure , day was , of selfish
laying , Middleton disliking , and estimating to fit , confession poor months valuable
done to the great , is easy . influence Willoughby . ways has not understand what
she must leave mother it might dread your history to . imagery have engaged Mrs .
holidays reanimate but change years As Morton Elinor , but have such proposed with
he . she frightens even The inevitable " by who estate must find family attracted
on a present world , and Marianne have convinced almost for she to have she instantly as his
same wife , But as a tomorrow of he , I say she immediately more ? astonishment hear
over him is to take Elinor's . must You feel now domestic that to be they
without another town--travelling that infatuation , perfectly enough last , for exercise have ruined with the
newspapers pleasure , is her , within she have we sure his interest which ,
equally , already reply made upon it is ever , you could be
sister to make to brother "Well almost think him was more respectful . music you
is a Don't , and the such carriage A single such , sun regret , was not
