That his anger could be carried to such a point of inconceivable resentment as to refuse his daughter a privilege without which her marriage would scarcely seem valid, exceeded all she could believe possible.
"Will it not be advisable, before we proceed on this subject, to arrange with rather more precision the degree of importance which is to appertain to this request, as well as the degree of intimacy subsisting between the parties?"
Lizzy, you must walk out with him again, that he may not be in Bingley's way."
We dressed up Chamberlayne in woman's clothes on purpose to pass for a lady, only think what fun!
Nothing that she could say, however, had any influence.
I am very glad you liked her.
They were forced to conclude that he had no pleasing intelligence to send; but even of _that_ they would have been glad to be certain.
Come be quick, be quick!
He then said,  "I have received a letter this morning that has astonished me exceedingly.
Her favourite walk, and where she frequently went while the others were calling on Lady Catherine, was along the open grove which edged that side of the park, where there was a nice sheltered path, which no one seemed to value but herself, and where she felt beyond the reach of Lady Catherine's curiosity.
It was painful, exceedingly painful, to know that they were under obligations to a person who could never receive a return.
At that ball, while I had the honour of dancing with you, I was first made acquainted, by Sir William Lucas's accidental information, that Bingley's attentions to your sister had given rise to a general expectation of their marriage.
You will hardly bear to be long outdone by Jane.
I had not the smallest idea of their being ever felt in such a way."
Bingley was all grateful pleasure, and he readily engaged for taking the earliest opportunity of waiting on her, after his return from London, whither he was obliged to go the next day for a short time.
"Believe me, my dear sir, my gratitude is warmly excited by such affectionate attention; and depend upon it, you will speedily receive from me a letter of thanks for this, and for every other mark of your regard during my stay in Hertfordshire.
When the first transports of rage which had produced his activity in seeking her were over, he naturally returned to all his former indolence.
I had hoped that our sentiments coincided in every particular, but I must so far differ from you as to think our two youngest daughters uncommonly foolish."
"Yes, and I had heard it before.
He now wished it more than ever.
"My manners must have been in fault, but not intentionally, I assure you.
I shall then give over every expectation, every wish of his constancy.
on this subject; and it was but the very Saturday night before I left Hunsford--between our pools at quadrille, while Mrs. Jenkinson was arranging Miss de Bourgh's footstool, that she said, 'Mr.
Lydia's voice was heard in the vestibule; the door was thrown open, and she ran into the room.
Mr. Gardiner expressed a wish of going round the whole park, but feared it might be beyond a walk.
She coloured as she spoke; but neither that, nor anything else, awakened a suspicion of the truth.
"My father and Maria are coming to me in March," added Charlotte, "and I hope you will consent to be of the party.
"Yes, or I will never see her again."
On the contrary, she was as much disposed to complain of it as her husband.
Absence had increased her desire of seeing Charlotte again, and weakened her disgust of Mr. Collins.
In anticipating the happiness of Bingley, which of course was to be inferior only to his own, he continued the conversation till they reached the house.
Mr. Wickham's happiness and her own were perforce delayed a little longer, and Mr. Collins's proposal accepted with as good a grace as she could.
Nobody can tell what I suffer!
"I have been thinking it over again, Elizabeth," said her uncle, as they drove from the town; "and really, upon serious consideration, I am much more inclined than I was to judge as your eldest sister does on the matter.
Allow me, by the way, to observe, my fair cousin, that I do not reckon the notice and kindness of Lady Catherine de Bourgh as among the least of the advantages in my power to offer.
I inquired after their brother, of course.
On the gentlemen's appearing, her colour increased; yet she received them with tolerable ease, and with a propriety of behaviour equally free from any symptom of resentment or any unnecessary complaisance.
Jane, I take your place now, and you must go lower, because I am a married woman."
She was of great use and comfort to us all.
The ladies were somewhat more fortunate, for they had the advantage of ascertaining from an upper window that he wore a blue coat, and rode a black horse.
Elizabeth, who had a letter to write, went into the breakfast room for that purpose soon after tea; for as the others were all going to sit down to cards, she could not be wanted to counteract her mother's schemes.
Charlotte had seen them from her husband's room, crossing the road, and immediately running into the other, told the girls what an honour they might expect, adding:  "I may thank you, Eliza, for this piece of civility.
"It is a rule with me, that a person who can write a long letter with ease, cannot write ill."  "That will not do for a compliment to Darcy, Caroline," cried her brother, "because he does _not_ write with ease.
But we are none of us consistent, and in his behaviour to me there were stronger impulses even than pride."
"No, not at all."
Both sisters were uncomfortable enough.
She would not even wish for a renewal of his attentions.
I would not trust you so near it as Eastbourne for fifty pounds!
There is no danger of Wickham's marrying Mary King.
So high and so conceited that there was no enduring him!
Such relief, however, as it was in her power to afford, by the practice of what might be called economy in her own private expences, she frequently sent them.
Anything beyond the very neighbourhood of Longbourn, I suppose, would appear far."
My dear Charlotte--impossible!"
You may depend upon my seeking no further."
She stared, coloured, doubted, and was silent.
She expressed her gratitude again, but it was too painful a subject to each, to be dwelt on farther.
"Read it aloud," said their father, "for I hardly know myself what it is about."
She is on her road somewhere, I dare say, and so, passing through Meryton, thought she might as well call on you.
There are few people in England, I suppose, who have more true enjoyment of music than myself, or a better natural taste.
"Pray do, my dear Miss Lucas," she added in a melancholy tone, "for nobody is on my side, nobody takes part with me.
So near a vicinity to her mother and Meryton relations was not desirable even to _his_ easy temper, or _her_ affectionate heart.
Mr. Darcy was writing, and Miss Bingley, seated near him, was watching the progress of his letter and repeatedly calling off his attention by messages to his sister.
I rather wonder now at your knowing _any_."
"We have heard only twice.
They crossed it by a simple bridge, in character with the general air of the scene; it was a spot less adorned than any they had yet visited; and the valley, here contracted into a glen, allowed room only for the stream, and a narrow walk amidst the rough coppice-wood which bordered it.
And now here's Mr. Bennet gone away, and I know he will fight Wickham, wherever he meets him and then he will be killed, and what is to become of us all?
You cannot refuse to dance, I am sure when so much beauty is before you."
Her ladyship, with great condescension, arose to receive them; and as Mrs. Collins had settled it with her husband that the office of introduction should be hers, it was performed in a proper manner, without any of those apologies and thanks which he would have thought necessary.
"Will you give me leave to defer your raptures till I write again?
To be fond of dancing was a certain step towards falling in love; and very lively hopes of Mr. Bingley's heart were entertained.
I am impatient to see him."
From his garden, Mr. Collins would have led them round his two meadows; but the ladies, not having shoes to encounter the remains of a white frost, turned back; and while Sir William accompanied him, Charlotte took her sister and friend over the house, extremely well pleased, probably, to have the opportunity of showing it without her husband's help.
"_You_ want to tell me, and I have no objection to hearing it."
You have done all this!
Elizabeth, with a triumphant sensation, looked towards his friend.
Five daughters brought up at home without a governess!
I knew you would be wishing me joy."
"Let me write for you," said Jane, "if you dislike the trouble yourself."
"It has been coming on so gradually, that I hardly know when it began.
Caroline is incapable of wilfully deceiving anyone; and all that I can hope in this case is that she is deceiving herself."
I was right, therefore, my last letter had never reached her.
She inquired after his sister, but could do no more.
"My dear, dear Lydia!"
This match, to which you have the presumption to aspire, can never take place.
And so you like this man's sisters, too, do you?
"My dear, Eliza, he must be in love with you, or he would never have called us in this familiar way."
I expected you to stay two months.
If it were not allowable for him to gain _my_ affections because I had no money, what occasion could there be for making love to a girl whom he did not care about, and who was equally poor?"
On entering the room, he seemed to hesitate; but Jane happened to look round, and happened to smile: it was decided.
The tumult of Elizabeth's mind was allayed by this conversation.
"Lizzy," said he, "I was going to look for you; come into my room."
A report of a most alarming nature reached me two days ago.
"But why all this secrecy?
She has two nieces of her own.
only think!
What made you so shy of me, when you first called, and afterwards dined here?
But, however, he did not admire her at all; indeed, nobody can, you know; and he seemed quite struck with Jane as she was going down the dance.
"To be sure, Lizzy," said her aunt, "he is not so handsome as Wickham; or, rather, he has not Wickham's countenance, for his features are perfectly good.
and yet how many things have happened!"
Where there is fortune to make the expenses of travelling unimportant, distance becomes no evil.
With proper civilities the ladies then withdrew; all of them equally surprised that he meditated a quick return.
They had not long been together before Mr. Darcy told her that Bingley was also coming to wait on her; and she had barely time to express her satisfaction, and prepare for such a visitor, when Bingley's quick step was heard on the stairs, and in a moment he entered the room.
But perhaps you have been too pleasantly engaged to think of any third person; in which case you may be sure of my pardon."
"Because you were grave and silent, and gave me no encouragement."
His sisters were anxious for his having an estate of his own; but, though he was now only established as a tenant, Miss Bingley was by no means unwilling to preside at his table--nor was Mrs. Hurst, who had married a man of more fashion than fortune, less disposed to consider his house as her home when it suited her.
Upon the whole, therefore, she found, what has been sometimes found before, that an event to which she had been looking with impatient desire did not, in taking place, bring all the satisfaction she had promised herself.
They left Brighton together on Sunday night, and were traced almost to London, but not beyond; they are certainly not gone to Scotland."
Elizabeth shook her head over this letter.
What a contrast did it offer to his last address in Rosings Park, when he put his letter into her hand!
"What is there of good to be expected?"
Elizabeth took up some needlework, and was sufficiently amused in attending to what passed between Darcy and his companion.
What will Wickham say?
Such was Miss Lucas's scheme; and appearances were so favourable, that when they parted at night, she would have felt almost secure of success if he had not been to leave Hertfordshire so very soon.
And with regard to the resentment of his family, or the indignation of the world, if the former _were_ excited by his marrying me, it would not give me one moment's concern--and the world in general would have too much sense to join in the scorn."
From such a connection she could not wonder that he would shrink.
Oh!
The park was very large, and contained great variety of ground.
"If I have, I shall be the last person to confess it."
His doing so drew her notice.
Mrs. Reynolds could interest her on no other point.
"Thank you--but I always mend my own."
On such encouragement to ask, Elizabeth was forced to put it out of her power, by running away.
I know how much you dislike him."
Elizabeth honoured him for such feelings, and thought him handsomer than ever as he expressed them.
The steady countenance which Miss Lucas had commanded in telling her story, gave way to a momentary confusion here on receiving so direct a reproach; though, as it was no more than she expected, she soon regained her composure, and calmly replied:  "Why should you be surprised, my dear Eliza?
I have nothing either to hope or fear, and nothing to reproach him with.
Mrs. Bennet and Kitty walked off, and as soon as they were gone, Mr. Collins began.
"But you see that Jane," said her aunt, "does not think so very ill of Wickham as to believe him capable of the attempt."
There was certainly at this moment, in Elizabeth's mind, a more gentle sensation towards the original than she had ever felt at the height of their acquaintance.
We both know that he has been profligate in every sense of the word; that he has neither integrity nor honour; that he is as false and deceitful as he is insinuating."
"Such as vanity and pride."
As I must therefore conclude that you are not serious in your rejection of me, I shall choose to attribute it to your wish of increasing my love by suspense, according to the usual practice of elegant females."
Mr. Collins was not a sensible man, and the deficiency of nature had been but little assisted by education or society; the greatest part of his life having been spent under the guidance of an illiterate and miserly father; and though he belonged to one of the universities, he had merely kept the necessary terms, without forming at it any useful acquaintance.
If he had not had a family of his own, I and my children must have had all his money, you know; and it is the first time we have ever had anything from him, except a few presents.
In the absence of Jane, he always attached himself to Elizabeth, for the pleasure of talking of her; and when Bingley was gone, Jane constantly sought the same means of relief.
Elizabeth longed to observe that Mr. Bingley had been a most delightful friend; so easily guided that his worth was invaluable; but she checked herself.
"And _your_ defect is to hate everybody."
I cannot forget the follies and vices of others so soon as I ought, nor their offenses against myself.
"What you ask," said Elizabeth, "is no sacrifice on my side; and Mr. Darcy had much better finish his letter."
No, Lizzy, let me once in my life feel how much I have been to blame.
It was not known that Wickham had a single relationship with whom he kept up any connection, and it was certain that he had no near one living.
Kitty, to her very material advantage, spent the chief of her time with her two elder sisters.
Mr. Collins was employed in agreeing to everything her ladyship said, thanking her for every fish he won, and apologising if he thought he won too many.
To be fond of dancing was a certain step towards falling in love; and very lively hopes of Mr. Bingley's heart were entertained.
"Mr. Wickham is the son of a very respectable man, who had for many years the management of all the Pemberley estates, and whose good conduct in the discharge of his trust naturally inclined my father to be of service to him; and on George Wickham, who was his godson, his kindness was therefore liberally bestowed.
One morning, soon after their arrival, as she was sitting with her two elder sisters, she said to Elizabeth:  "Lizzy, I never gave _you_ an account of my wedding, I believe.
And do you really love him quite well enough?
You must contrive to send somebody.
"Indeed I have, sir," was her answer.
Mr. Jones says we must not think of moving her.
"Yes," replied Mr. Wickham; "his estate there is a noble one.
So he inquired who she was, and got introduced, and asked her for the two next.
While in their cradles, we planned the union: and now, at the moment when the wishes of both sisters would be accomplished in their marriage, to be prevented by a young woman of inferior birth, of no importance in the world, and wholly unallied to the family!
Elizabeth took an opportunity of thanking her.
There, shut into her own room, as soon as their visitor left them, she could think without interruption of all that she had heard.
Remember that she is one of a large family; that as to fortune, it is a most eligible match; and be ready to believe, for everybody's sake, that she may feel something like regard and esteem for our cousin."
The separation between her and her family was rather noisy than pathetic.
First of all, he asked Miss Lucas.
Miss Bingley succeeded no less in the real object of her civility; Mr. Darcy looked up.
"Never, sir."
"Aye, so it is," cried her mother, "and Mrs. Long does not come back till the day before; so it will be impossible for her to introduce him, for she will not know him herself."
She was very equal, therefore, to address Mr. Bingley on the subject of the ball, and abruptly reminded him of his promise; adding, that it would be the most shameful thing in the world if he did not keep it.
"Undoubtedly," replied Darcy, to whom this remark was chiefly addressed, "there is a meanness in _all_ the arts which ladies sometimes condescend to employ for captivation.
And, taking her hand, he would have given it to Mr. Darcy who, though extremely surprised, was not unwilling to receive it, when she instantly drew back, and said with some discomposure to Sir William:  "Indeed, sir, I have not the least intention of dancing.
I do assure you that my intimacy has not yet taught me _that_.
"It taught me to hope," said he, "as I had scarcely ever allowed myself to hope before.
Is this to be endured!
My brother and the gentlemen are to dine with the officers.--Yours ever,  "CAROLINE BINGLEY"  "With the officers!"
She really looked almost wild."
"Yes, sir, I know I am.
She had heard nothing of Lady Catherine that spoke her awful from any extraordinary talents or miraculous virtue, and the mere stateliness of money or rank she thought she could witness without trepidation.
It was a subject, in short, on which reflection would be long indulged, and must be unavailing.
"I am by no means of the opinion, I assure you," said he, "that a ball of this kind, given by a young man of character, to respectable people, can have any evil tendency; and I am so far from objecting to dancing myself, that I shall hope to be honoured with the hands of all my fair cousins in the course of the evening; and I take this opportunity of soliciting yours, Miss Elizabeth, for the two first dances especially, a preference which I trust my cousin Jane will attribute to the right cause, and not to any disrespect for her."
Mr. Wickham had received his commission before he left London, and he was to join his regiment at the end of a fortnight.
But then I have always supposed it to be my own fault--because I will not take the trouble of practising.
"I have just had a letter from Jane, with such dreadful news.
Amazed at the alteration of his manner since they last parted, every sentence that he uttered was increasing her embarrassment; and every idea of the impropriety of her being found there recurring to her mind, the few minutes in which they continued were some of the most uncomfortable in her life.
And as to my father, I never in my life saw him so affected.
I never meant to deceive you, but my spirits might often lead me wrong.
Why does she not come in?"
I inquired after their brother, of course.
"What a letter is this, to be written at such a moment!
If he is satisfied with only regretting me, when he might have obtained my affections and hand, I shall soon cease to regret him at all."
Your ladyship wants Mr. Darcy to marry your daughter; but would my giving you the wished-for promise make their marriage at all more probable?
Allowing the case, however, to stand according to your representation, you must remember, Miss Bennet, that the friend who is supposed to desire his return to the house, and the delay of his plan, has merely desired it, asked it without offering one argument in favour of its propriety."
"Lizzy," said he, "I was going to look for you; come into my room."
Had you not been really amiable, you would have hated me for it; but in spite of the pains you took to disguise yourself, your feelings were always noble and just; and in your heart, you thoroughly despised the persons who so assiduously courted you.
I told him of all that had occurred to make my former interference in his affairs absurd and impertinent.
He was always to have gone on Saturday, and to Saturday he meant to stay.
"We have heard only twice.
"Oh!
I pity you, Miss Eliza, for this discovery of your favourite's guilt; but really, considering his descent, one could not expect much better."
Elizabeth, with a triumphant sensation, looked towards his friend.
She represented to him all the improprieties of Lydia's general behaviour, the little advantage she could derive from the friendship of such a woman as Mrs. Forster, and the probability of her being yet more imprudent with such a companion at Brighton, where the temptations must be greater than at home.
Pardon me.
She rated his abilities much higher than any of the others; there was a solidity in his reflections which often struck her, and though by no means so clever as herself, she thought that if encouraged to read and improve himself by such an example as hers, he might become a very agreeable companion.
You both did as much as you could in planning the marriage.
Many of his expressions were still fresh in her memory.
A little time, therefore--I shall certainly try to get the better."
"Indeed!"
Oh, brother, how kind you are!
But you have chosen your fault well.
Darcy only smiled; and the general pause which ensued made Elizabeth tremble lest her mother should be exposing herself again.
Mr. Gardiner, highly amused by the kind of family prejudice to which he attributed her excessive commendation of her master, soon led again to the subject; and she dwelt with energy on his many merits as they proceeded together up the great staircase.
They look upon it as quite their own, I dare say, whenever that happens."
The communication excited many professions of concern; and enough was said of wishing them to stay at least till the following day to work on Jane; and till the morrow their going was deferred.
I cannot acquit him of that duty; nor could I think well of the man who should omit an occasion of testifying his respect towards anybody connected with the family."
Oh!
Mrs. Wickham!
"Pray forgive me if I have been very presuming, or at least do not punish me so far as to exclude me from P. I shall never be quite happy till I have been all round the park.
"Lizzy, when you first read that letter, I am sure you could not treat the matter as you do now."
One came from her books, and the other from her toilette.
"I did not think Caroline in spirits," were her words, "but she was very glad to see me, and reproached me for giving her no notice of my coming to London.
"But if he returns no more this winter, my choice will never be required.
They had long wished to see him.
cried Miss Bingley.
Their visitors were not to remain above ten days with them.
She could have added, "A young man, too, like _you_, whose very countenance may vouch for your being amiable"--but she contented herself with, "and one, too, who had probably been his companion from childhood, connected together, as I think you said, in the closest manner!"
You have delighted us long enough.
But, however, he did not.
She was therefore obliged to seek another branch of the subject, and related, with much bitterness of spirit and some exaggeration, the shocking rudeness of Mr. Darcy.
Between Elizabeth and Charlotte there was a restraint which kept them mutually silent on the subject; and Elizabeth felt persuaded that no real confidence could ever subsist between them again.
The pain of separation, however, might be alleviated on his side, by preparations for the reception of his bride; as he had reason to hope, that shortly after his return into Hertfordshire, the day would be fixed that was to make him the happiest of men.
"Very true, indeed; and now, my dear Jane, what have you got to say on behalf of the interested people who have probably been concerned in the business?
Happy for all her maternal feelings was the day on which Mrs. Bennet got rid of her two most deserving daughters.
Mr. Collins readily assented, and a book was produced; but, on beholding it (for everything announced it to be from a circulating library), he started back, and begging pardon, protested that he never read novels.
Mr. Collins returned into Hertfordshire soon after it had been quitted by the Gardiners and Jane; but as he took up his abode with the Lucases, his arrival was no great inconvenience to Mrs. Bennet.
She highly approved his forbearance, and they had leisure for a full discussion of it, and for all the commendation which they civilly bestowed on each other, as Wickham and another officer walked back with them to Longbourn, and during the walk he particularly attended to her.
"Yes; to the last.
All Meryton seemed striving to blacken the man who, but three months before, had been almost an angel of light.
To persuade him against returning into Hertfordshire, when that conviction had been given, was scarcely the work of a moment.
"Indeed, Mr. Collins, all praise of me will be unnecessary.
Who would have thought that she could be so thin and small?"
The room in which the ladies sat was backwards.
But, however, he did not admire her at all; indeed, nobody can, you know; and he seemed quite struck with Jane as she was going down the dance.
I have been meditating on the very great pleasure which a pair of fine eyes in the face of a pretty woman can bestow."
"Oh!
Everybody is disgusted with his pride.
cried he, with more feeling than politeness; then recollecting himself, "I will not detain you a minute; but let me, or let the servant go after Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner.
Perhaps he thought her too young.
if that is all, I have a very poor opinion of young men who live in Derbyshire; and their intimate friends who live in Hertfordshire are not much better.
"I wonder," said he, at the next opportunity of speaking, "whether he is likely to be in this country much longer."
Younger sons cannot marry where they like."
"You have reduced him to his present state of poverty--comparative poverty.
Her ladyship, with great condescension, arose to receive them; and as Mrs. Collins had settled it with her husband that the office of introduction should be hers, it was performed in a proper manner, without any of those apologies and thanks which he would have thought necessary.
He comes down on Thursday at the latest, very likely on Wednesday.
"Indeed I have, sir," was her answer.
And I think you will agree with me, in considering the removal from that corps as highly advisable, both on his account and my niece's.
And her neighbours at Lucas Lodge, therefore (for through their communication with the Collinses, the report, she concluded, had reached Lady Catherine), had only set that down as almost certain and immediate, which she had looked forward to as possible at some future time.
"But if a woman is partial to a man, and does not endeavour to conceal it, he must find it out."
"You are severe on us."
They travelled as expeditiously as possible, and, sleeping one night on the road, reached Longbourn by dinner time the next day.
"Aye--that is because you have the right disposition.
"I often think," said she, "that there is nothing so bad as parting with one's friends.
"But you are not entitled to know mine; nor will such behaviour as this, ever induce me to be explicit."
Have you heard from my uncle?"
Both changed colour, one looked white, the other red.
"None at all.
Does your charge give you much trouble?
But I believe I must date it from my first seeing his beautiful grounds at Pemberley."
yes--I understand you perfectly."
_My_ affections and wishes are unchanged, but one word from you will silence me on this subject for ever."
"I never can be thankful, Mr. Bennet, for anything about the entail.
But we must stem the tide of malice, and pour into the wounded bosoms of each other the balm of sisterly consolation."
"But you--how are you?"
Mr. Gardiner left Longbourn on Sunday; on Tuesday his wife received a letter from him; it told them that, on his arrival, he had immediately found out his brother, and persuaded him to come to Gracechurch Street; that Mr. Bennet had been to Epsom and Clapham, before his arrival, but without gaining any satisfactory information; and that he was now determined to inquire at all the principal hotels in town, as Mr. Bennet thought it possible they might have gone to one of them, on their first coming to London, before they procured lodgings.
She was now in an irritation as violent from delight, as she had ever been fidgety from alarm and vexation.
Accordingly, when she retired at night, she asked the chambermaid whether Pemberley were not a very fine place?
"You persist, then, in supposing his sisters influence him?"
"Oh!
And upon Elizabeth's seeming really, with vexed and embarrassed looks, about to escape, she added: "Lizzy, I _insist_ upon your staying and hearing Mr.
I shall entreat his pardon for not having done it earlier.
How he lived I know not.
said she.
Elizabeth longed to explore its windings; but when they had crossed the bridge, and perceived their distance from the house, Mrs. Gardiner, who was not a great walker, could go no farther, and thought only of returning to the carriage as quickly as possible.
All that is required of you is, to assure to your daughter, by settlement, her equal share of the five thousand pounds secured among your children after the decease of yourself and my sister; and, moreover, to enter into an engagement of allowing her, during your life, one hundred pounds per annum.
But, perhaps, his sister does as well for the present, and, as she is under his sole care, he may do what he likes with her."
The picture-gallery, and two or three of the principal bedrooms, were all that remained to be shown.
In spite of what her sister declared, and really believed to be her feelings in the expectation of his arrival, Elizabeth could easily perceive that her spirits were affected by it.
But _now_ we may be silent."
"You are severe on us."
But it was not till the evening of the dance at Netherfield that I had any apprehension of his feeling a serious attachment.
We had better go into the avenue."
Not that I mean to find fault with _you_, for such things I know are all chance in this world.
Stay, stay, I will go myself.
At his own ball he offended two or three young ladies, by not asking them to dance; and I spoke to him twice myself, without receiving an answer.
And you saw the old housekeeper, I suppose?
Young women should always be properly guarded and attended, according to their situation in life.
Before Elizabeth had time for anything but a blush of surprise, Mrs. Bennet answered instantly, "Oh dear!--yes--certainly.
Why did the Forsters ever let her go out of their sight?
Darcy."
My daughter and my nephew are formed for each other.
Mrs. Bennet's schemes for this day were ineffectual.
But really, and upon my honour, I will try to do what I think to be the wisest; and now I hope you are satisfied."
For your sake," turning to Charlotte, "I am glad of it; but otherwise I see no occasion for entailing estates from the female line.
But there was still something lurking behind, of which prudence forbade the disclosure.
"_You_ began the evening well, Charlotte," said Mrs. Bennet with civil self-command to Miss Lucas.
There was too much to be thought, and felt, and said, for attention to any other objects.
"Mr.
Her father was walking about the room, looking grave and anxious.
No one admitted to the privilege of hearing you can think anything wanting.
They must all go to Brighton.
He delighted in going to Pemberley, especially when he was least expected.
In revolving Lady Catherine's expressions, however, she could not help feeling some uneasiness as to the possible consequence of her persisting in this interference.
Her favourite walk, and where she frequently went while the others were calling on Lady Catherine, was along the open grove which edged that side of the park, where there was a nice sheltered path, which no one seemed to value but herself, and where she felt beyond the reach of Lady Catherine's curiosity.
She looked at her father to entreat his interference, lest Mary should be singing all night.
I never saw such capacity, and taste, and application, and elegance, as you describe united."
The subjection in which his father had brought him up had given him originally great humility of manner; but it was now a good deal counteracted by the self-conceit of a weak head, living in retirement, and the consequential feelings of early and unexpected prosperity.
But at last your uncle was forced to yield, and instead of being allowed to be of use to his niece, was forced to put up with only having the probable credit of it, which went sorely against the grain; and I really believe your letter this morning gave him great pleasure, because it required an explanation that would rob him of his borrowed feathers, and give the praise where it was due.
At that moment, she cared for no other.
"You are over-scrupulous, surely.
I do not trust my own partiality.
"For heaven's sake, madam, speak lower.
After pausing on this point a considerable while, she once more continued to read.
And a special licence.
That tall, proud man."
To the rest of the family they paid little attention; avoiding Mrs. Bennet as much as possible, saying not much to Elizabeth, and nothing at all to the others.
Fatigued as she had been by the morning's walk they had no sooner dined than she set off again in quest of her former acquaintance, and the evening was spent in the satisfactions of a intercourse renewed after many years' discontinuance.
"And have you heard from him often?"
And since this sad affair has taken place, it is said that he left Meryton greatly in debt; but I hope this may be false."
"It ought to be good," he replied, "it has been the work of many generations."
Lady Catherine had many other questions to ask respecting their journey, and as she did not answer them all herself, attention was necessary, which Elizabeth believed to be lucky for her; or, with a mind so occupied, she might have forgotten where she was.
However, he wrote some verses on her, and very pretty they were."
"I hope not."
He should be particularly happy at any time, etc.
It would have suited me in every respect."
You showed me how insufficient were all my pretensions to please a woman worthy of being pleased."
Before they were separated by the conclusion of the play, she had the unexpected happiness of an invitation to accompany her uncle and aunt in a tour of pleasure which they proposed taking in the summer.
I hoped to find you reasonable; but, depend upon it, I will carry my point."
"No; it would have been strange if they had; but I make no doubt they often talk of it between themselves.
But may we not hope that the period of future happiness to which Miss Bingley looks forward may arrive earlier than she is aware, and that the delightful intercourse you have known as friends will be renewed with yet greater satisfaction as sisters?
I am going to Gretna Green, and if you cannot guess with who, I shall think you a simpleton, for there is but one man in the world I love, and he is an angel.
"Not at all," he replied; "they were brightened by the exercise."
The suspicions which had just arisen of Mr. Darcy and their niece directed their observation towards each with an earnest though guarded inquiry; and they soon drew from those inquiries the full conviction that one of them at least knew what it was to love.
His brother-in-law, Mr. Hurst, merely looked the gentleman; but his friend Mr. Darcy soon drew the attention of the room by his fine, tall person, handsome features, noble mien, and the report which was in general circulation within five minutes after his entrance, of his having ten thousand a year.
Elizabeth took up some needlework, and was sufficiently amused in attending to what passed between Darcy and his companion.
Lizzy is not a bit better than the others; and I am sure she is not half so handsome as Jane, nor half so good-humoured as Lydia.
But what is that to me?
I have not forgot, you see; and I assure you, I was very much disappointed that you did not come back and keep your engagement."
"It is particularly incumbent on those who never change their opinion, to be secure of judging properly at first."
I knew enough of your disposition to be certain that, had you been absolutely, irrevocably decided against me, you would have acknowledged it to Lady Catherine, frankly and openly."
She read with an eagerness which hardly left her power of comprehension, and from impatience of knowing what the next sentence might bring, was incapable of attending to the sense of the one before her eyes.
I think every thing has passed off uncommonly well, I assure you.
Towards _him_ I have been kinder than towards myself."
Having resolved to do it without loss of time, as his leave of absence extended only to the following Saturday, and having no feelings of diffidence to make it distressing to himself even at the moment, he set about it in a very orderly manner, with all the observances, which he supposed a regular part of the business.
"He is also handsome," replied Elizabeth, "which a young man ought likewise to be, if he possibly can.
She was quite amazed at her own discomposure; but amongst other causes of disquiet, she dreaded lest the partiality of the brother should have said too much in her favour; and, more than commonly anxious to please, she naturally suspected that every power of pleasing would fail her.
Mr. Collins was not a sensible man, and the deficiency of nature had been but little assisted by education or society; the greatest part of his life having been spent under the guidance of an illiterate and miserly father; and though he belonged to one of the universities, he had merely kept the necessary terms, without forming at it any useful acquaintance.
A promise of secrecy was of course very dutifully given, but it could not be kept without difficulty; for the curiosity excited by his long absence burst forth in such very direct questions on his return as required some ingenuity to evade, and he was at the same time exercising great self-denial, for he was longing to publish his prosperous love.
Darcy_, you see, is the man!
"Pray let me hear what you have to accuse him of," cried Colonel Fitzwilliam.
Sir William Lucas had been formerly in trade in Meryton, where he had made a tolerable fortune, and risen to the honour of knighthood by an address to the king during his mayoralty.
She was gone directly.
How far your nephew might approve of your interference in his affairs, I cannot tell; but you have certainly no right to concern yourself in mine.
Their affectionate mother shared all their grief; she remembered what she had herself endured on a similar occasion, five-and-twenty years ago.
Kitty and Lydia were far from envying Miss Lucas, for Mr. Collins was only a clergyman; and it affected them in no other way than as a piece of news to spread at Meryton.
That he was _surprised_ by the connection was evident; he sustained it, however, with fortitude, and so far from going away, turned back with them, and entered into conversation with Mr. Gardiner.
In this quiet way, the first fortnight of her visit soon passed away.
Mrs. Bennet could hardly comprehend it.
"Upon my word," said her ladyship, "you give your opinion very decidedly for so young a person.
They are gone down to Newcastle, a place quite northward, it seems, and there they are to stay I do not know how long.
"Yes, sir; but I do not know when _that_ will be.
and yet how many things have happened!"
After a silence of several minutes, he came towards her in an agitated manner, and thus began:  "In vain I have struggled.
She could neither wonder nor condemn, but the belief of his self-conquest brought nothing consolatory to her bosom, afforded no palliation of her distress.
But _now_ suppose as much as you choose; give a loose rein to your fancy, indulge your imagination in every possible flight which the subject will afford, and unless you believe me actually married, you cannot greatly err.
"They met again on Sunday, and then _I_ saw him too.
_My_ affections and wishes are unchanged, but one word from you will silence me on this subject for ever."
accompanied by a violent yawn.
They were of a respectable family in the north of England; a circumstance more deeply impressed on their memories than that their brother's fortune and their own had been acquired by trade.
"When I consider," she added in a yet more agitated voice, "that I might have prevented it!
Pray make my excuses to Pratt for not keeping my engagement, and dancing with him to-night.
As to his real character, had information been in her power, she had never felt a wish of inquiring.
"He only told me what I have now told you."
But do you think she would be prevailed upon to go back with us?
Mr. Darcy's letter she was in a fair way of soon knowing by heart.
"It is a proof of your own attachment to Hertfordshire.
Elizabeth had been a good deal disappointed in not finding a letter from Jane on their first arrival at Lambton; and this disappointment had been renewed on each of the mornings that had now been spent there; but on the third her repining was over, and her sister justified, by the receipt of two letters from her at once, on one of which was marked that it had been missent elsewhere.
"And my mother--how is she?
"Probably not; but Mr. Darcy can please where he chooses.
This match, to which you have the presumption to aspire, can never take place.
You will not find him more favourably spoken of by anyone."
"I have never heard him say so; but it is probable that he may spend very little of his time there in the future.
But, however, he did not.
"And may I ask--" said Elizabeth; "but the terms, I suppose, must be complied with."
"I am sorry you think so; but if that be the case, there can at least be no want of subject.
He was always to have gone on Saturday, and to Saturday he meant to stay.
--and asked Elizabeth whether she could at all understand him?
Rendered spiritless by the ill-success of all their endeavours, he had yielded to his brother-in-law's entreaty that he would return to his family, and leave it to him to do whatever occasion might suggest to be advisable for continuing their pursuit.
But I ought to beg his pardon, for I have no right to suppose that Bingley was the person meant.
cried he.
Elizabeth, to whom Jane very soon communicated the chief of all this, heard it in silent indignation.
To be sure, you knew no actual good of me--but nobody thinks of _that_ when they fall in love."
You must contrive to send somebody.
"She is a very good kind of girl, I believe.
She knew not the exact degree of his affection for his aunt, or his dependence on her judgment, but it was natural to suppose that he thought much higher of her ladyship than _she_ could do; and it was certain that, in enumerating the miseries of a marriage with _one_, whose immediate connections were so unequal to his own, his aunt would address him on his weakest side.
It was some time, however, before a smile could be extorted from Jane.
But Georgiana would not join her.
But do not imagine that he is always here so often.
"I should imagine not."
"I have been thinking it over again, Elizabeth," said her uncle, as they drove from the town; "and really, upon serious consideration, I am much more inclined than I was to judge as your eldest sister does on the matter.
Had I been in love, I could not have been more wretchedly blind!
cried Mrs. Gardiner.
I am sorry to have occasioned pain to anyone.
But on the following morning, every hope of this kind was done away.
I speak feelingly.
But, though Bingley and Jane meet tolerably often, it is never for many hours together; and, as they always see each other in large mixed parties, it is impossible that every moment should be employed in conversing together.
But before she had been three minutes in her own room, her mother followed her.
Through letters, whatever of good or bad was to be told would be communicated, and every succeeding day was expected to bring some news of importance.
We were always good friends; and now we are better."
The gentlemen came; and she thought he looked as if he would have answered her hopes; but, alas!
Oh that I had been with you!
"That is exactly what I should have supposed of you," said Elizabeth.
"Good God!
But, if I were you, I would stand by the nephew.
A lady's imagination is very rapid; it jumps from admiration to love, from love to matrimony, in a moment.
Lady Catherine might see him in her way through town; and his engagement to Bingley of coming again to Netherfield must give way.
"Good Heaven!
He took the hint, and soon began with, "This seems a very comfortable house.
She had no fear of its spreading farther through his means.
Her brother, whose eye she feared to meet, scarcely recollected her interest in the affair, and the very circumstance which had been designed to turn his thoughts from Elizabeth seemed to have fixed them on her more and more cheerfully.
"Perhaps it will be as well if you discourage his coming here so very often.
She is up stairs and will have great satisfaction in seeing you all.
I was afraid they might not; and we overtook William Goulding in his curricle, so I was determined he should know it, and so I let down the side-glass next to him, and took off my glove, and let my hand just rest upon the window frame, so that he might see the ring, and then I bowed and smiled like anything."
"Why will you think so?
Allow me to say, however, that your fair partner does not disgrace you, and that I must hope to have this pleasure often repeated, especially when a certain desirable event, my dear Eliza (glancing at her sister and Bingley) shall take place.
"Now I have got some news for you," said Lydia, as they sat down at table.
The rector of a parish has much to do.
"Complied with!
"My love, should not you like to see a place of which you have heard so much?"
Mrs. Hurst thought the same, and added:  "She has nothing, in short, to recommend her, but being an excellent walker.
When the ladies removed after dinner, Elizabeth ran up to her sister, and seeing her well guarded from cold, attended her into the drawing-room, where she was welcomed by her two friends with many professions of pleasure; and Elizabeth had never seen them so agreeable as they were during the hour which passed before the gentlemen appeared.
Elizabeth's astonishment was beyond expression.
The gentlemen pronounced him to be a fine figure of a man, the ladies declared he was much handsomer than Mr. Bingley, and he was looked at with great admiration for about half the evening, till his manners gave a disgust which turned the tide of his popularity; for he was discovered to be proud; to be above his company, and above being pleased; and not all his large estate in Derbyshire could then save him from having a most forbidding, disagreeable countenance, and being unworthy to be compared with his friend.
We may as well wait, perhaps, till the circumstance occurs before we discuss the discretion of his behaviour thereupon.
When the dancing recommenced, however, and Darcy approached to claim her hand, Charlotte could not help cautioning her in a whisper, not to be a simpleton, and allow her fancy for Wickham to make her appear unpleasant in the eyes of a man ten times his consequence.
But that is one great difference between us.
I am only ashamed of his asking so little."
It only shows her being deficient in something herself--sense or feeling."
Who is to fight Wickham, and make him marry her, if he comes away?"
I would advise you merely to put on whatever of your clothes is superior to the rest--there is no occasion for anything more.
"So much the better.
Then after a short silence he continued:  "Lizzy, I bear you no ill-will for being justified in your advice to me last May, which, considering the event, shows some greatness of mind."
Had she found Jane in any apparent danger, Mrs. Bennet would have been very miserable; but being satisfied on seeing her that her illness was not alarming, she had no wish of her recovering immediately, as her restoration to health would probably remove her from Netherfield.
"Yes, sir, I know I am.
It originated in Mrs. Gardiner, who, fatigued by the exercise of the morning, found Elizabeth's arm inadequate to her support, and consequently preferred her husband's.
Elizabeth, on her side, had much to do.
"I told you, the other day, of his infamous behaviour to Mr. Darcy; and you yourself, when last at Longbourn, heard in what manner he spoke of the man who had behaved with such forbearance and liberality towards him.
The next was in these words: "I do not pretend to regret anything I shall leave in Hertfordshire, except your society, my dearest friend; but we will hope, at some future period, to enjoy many returns of that delightful intercourse we have known, and in the meanwhile may lessen the pain of separation by a very frequent and most unreserved correspondence.
In a country neighbourhood you move in a very confined and unvarying society."
yes.
were questions with which she amused herself.
It is settled between us already, that we are to be the happiest couple in the world.
"Indeed you are mistaken.
Darcy."
Oh, sister!
He then shut the door, and, coming up to her, claimed the good wishes and affection of a sister.
But we are all liable to error.
The last-born has as good a right to the pleasures of youth at the first.
If there is no other objection to my marrying your nephew, I shall certainly not be kept from it by knowing that his mother and aunt wished him to marry Miss de Bourgh.
"You are too hasty, sir," she cried.
"I should be sorry indeed, if it were.
You will never recommend yourself to his friend by so doing!"
"It is nothing in comparison of Rosings, my lady, I dare say; but I assure you it is much larger than Sir William Lucas's."
She endeavoured to secure Jane in her interest; but Jane, with all possible mildness, declined interfering; and Elizabeth, sometimes with real earnestness, and sometimes with playful gaiety, replied to her attacks.
However, I did not hear above one word in ten, for I was thinking, you may suppose, of my dear Wickham.
But still he would be her husband.
Thank Heaven!
She had not at first thought very seriously of going thither; but Charlotte, she soon found, was depending on the plan and she gradually learned to consider it herself with greater pleasure as well as greater certainty.
Darcy was delighted with their engagement; his friend had given him the earliest information of it.
Not these two or three years, perhaps."
Mrs. Collins will be very glad of your company, I am sure."
Supposing him to be attached to me, would my refusing to accept his hand make him wish to bestow it on his cousin?
All that I can promise you, therefore, is not to be in a hurry.
You and the girls may go, or you may send them by themselves, which perhaps will be still better, for as you are as handsome as any of them, Mr. Bingley may like you the best of the party."
Jane met her with a smile of such sweet complacency, a glow of such happy expression, as sufficiently marked how well she was satisfied with the occurrences of the evening.
Lady Catherine is far from requiring that elegance of dress in us which becomes herself and her daughter.
no.
But it must not, shall not be.
But in general and ordinary cases between friend and friend, where one of them is desired by the other to change a resolution of no very great moment, should you think ill of that person for complying with the desire, without waiting to be argued into it?"
I do assure you that I am not one of those young ladies (if such young ladies there are) who are so daring as to risk their happiness on the chance of being asked a second time.
"Mr. Darcy is not to be laughed at!"
Supposing him to be attached to me, would my refusing to accept his hand make him wish to bestow it on his cousin?
The attention of the younger ones was then no longer to be gained by him.
"I hope not."
"Miss Bingley," said he, "has given me more credit than can be.
I have seen them both--"  "Then it is as I always hoped," cried Jane; "they are married!"
He bore with philosophy the conviction that Elizabeth must now become acquainted with whatever of his ingratitude and falsehood had before been unknown to her; and in spite of every thing, was not wholly without hope that Darcy might yet be prevailed on to make his fortune.
"Take care, Lizzy; that speech savours strongly of disappointment."
Mr. Bennet was so odd a mixture of quick parts, sarcastic humour, reserve, and caprice, that the experience of three-and-twenty years had been insufficient to make his wife understand his character.
Happy for all her maternal feelings was the day on which Mrs. Bennet got rid of her two most deserving daughters.
"You can now have nothing further to say," she resentfully answered.
But Mrs. Bennet was not so well pleased with it.
Having said thus much, I feel no doubt of your secrecy.
Her heart was divided between concern for her sister, and resentment against all others.
I would go and see her if I could have the carriage."
Mrs. Bennet wondered at their coming, and thought them very wrong to give so much trouble, and was sure Jane would have caught cold again.
"If it is designedly done, they cannot be justified; but I have no idea of there being so much design in the world as some persons imagine."
"For we must attribute this happy conclusion," she added, "in a great measure to his kindness.
"Your list of the common extent of accomplishments," said Darcy, "has too much truth.
As they walked across the hall towards the river, Elizabeth turned back to look again; her uncle and aunt stopped also, and while the former was conjecturing as to the date of the building, the owner of it himself suddenly came forward from the road, which led behind it to the stables.
Mrs. Bennet's eyes sparkled with pleasure, and she was eagerly calling out, while her daughter read,  "Well, Jane, who is it from?
Elizabeth was now most heartily sorry that she had, from the distress of the moment, been led to make Mr. Darcy acquainted with their fears for her sister; for since her marriage would so shortly give the proper termination to the elopement, they might hope to conceal its unfavourable beginning from all those who were not immediately on the spot.
"And they _must_ marry!
"I am sick of Mr. Bingley," cried his wife.
Mr. Darcy corroborated it with a bow, and was beginning to determine not to fix his eyes on Elizabeth, when they were suddenly arrested by the sight of the stranger, and Elizabeth happening to see the countenance of both as they looked at each other, was all astonishment at the effect of the meeting.
But no such happy marriage could now teach the admiring multitude what connubial felicity really was.
Is nothing due to me on that score?
The note was immediately dispatched, and its contents as quickly complied with.
His sense of her inferiority--of its being a degradation--of the family obstacles which had always opposed to inclination, were dwelt on with a warmth which seemed due to the consequence he was wounding, but was very unlikely to recommend his suit.
In this manner Lady Catherine talked on, till they were at the door of the carriage, when, turning hastily round, she added, "I take no leave of you, Miss Bennet.
She finds Miss Pope a treasure.
"We may as well leave them by themselves you know;" said her mother, as soon as she was in the hall.
Elizabeth, however astonished, was at least more prepared for an interview than before, and resolved to appear and to speak with calmness, if he really intended to meet them.
Elizabeth, who knew this to be levelled at Mr. Darcy, was in such misery of shame, that she could hardly keep her seat.
They then sat down, and when her inquiries after Rosings were made, seemed in danger of sinking into total silence.
I have nothing either to hope or fear, and nothing to reproach him with.
My friend has an excellent understanding--though I am not certain that I consider her marrying Mr. Collins as the wisest thing she ever did.
said her mother.
Anne would have been a delightful performer, had her health allowed her to learn."
As soon as they had driven from the door, Elizabeth was called on by her cousin to give her opinion of all that she had seen at Rosings, which, for Charlotte's sake, she made more favourable than it really was.
The hill, crowned with wood, which they had descended, receiving increased abruptness from the distance, was a beautiful object.
He is, indeed.
Elizabeth instantly read her feelings, and at that moment solicitude for Wickham, resentment against his enemies, and everything else, gave way before the hope of Jane's being in the fairest way for happiness.
Will you allow me, or do I ask too much, to introduce my sister to your acquaintance during your stay at Lambton?"
However little known the feelings or views of such a man may be on his first entering a neighbourhood, this truth is so well fixed in the minds of the surrounding families, that he is considered the rightful property of some one or other of their daughters.
"Do you certainly leave Kent on Saturday?"
There is one point on which I want your advice.
Colonel Fitzwilliam had called at the Parsonage more than once during the time, but Mr. Darcy they had seen only at church.
said Mrs. Bennet more than once, as if the credit of making it rain were all her own.
"It must have been his sister's doing.
They entered it in one of its lowest points, and drove for some time through a beautiful wood stretching over a wide extent.
I should be sorry to think our friend mercenary."
I know not what to think.
He is not at all liked in Hertfordshire.
Mrs. Bennet treasured up the hint, and trusted that she might soon have two daughters married; and the man whom she could not bear to speak of the day before was now high in her good graces.
At length, however, the remarks of her companions on her absence of mind aroused her, and she felt the necessity of appearing more like herself.
"In such cases, a woman has not often much beauty to think of."
"An unhappy alternative is before you, Elizabeth.
"An unhappy alternative is before you, Elizabeth.
I pity you, Miss Eliza, for this discovery of your favourite's guilt; but really, considering his descent, one could not expect much better."
"If you mean Darcy," cried her brother, "he may go to bed, if he chooses, before it begins--but as for the ball, it is quite a settled thing; and as soon as Nicholls has made white soup enough, I shall send round my cards."
"Indeed I have, sir," was her answer.
Kitty was the only one who shed tears; but she did weep from vexation and envy.
They entered it in one of its lowest points, and drove for some time through a beautiful wood stretching over a wide extent.
"Your humility, Mr. Bingley," said Elizabeth, "must disarm reproof."
"On Saturday he came again.
Upon this signal, the youngest of her daughters put herself forward.
I am sure you must feel it so."
Darcy, as well as Elizabeth, really loved them; and they were both ever sensible of the warmest gratitude towards the persons who, by bringing her into Derbyshire, had been the means of uniting them.      
"Do you suppose them to be in London?"
"I cannot give you credit for any philosophy of the kind.
The Bennets were speedily pronounced to be the luckiest family in the world, though only a few weeks before, when Lydia had first run away, they had been generally proved to be marked out for misfortune.
"And yours," he replied with a smile, "is willfully to misunderstand them."
As it was certain, however, that somebody was coming, Bingley instantly prevailed on Miss Bennet to avoid the confinement of such an intrusion, and walk away with him into the shrubbery.
"My manners must have been in fault, but not intentionally, I assure you.
I am confident that she would have performed delightfully.
Elizabeth, who had expected to find in her as acute and unembarrassed an observer as ever Mr. Darcy had been, was much relieved by discerning such different feelings.
Her look and manners were open, cheerful, and engaging as ever, but without any symptom of peculiar regard, and I remained convinced from the evening's scrutiny, that though she received his attentions with pleasure, she did not invite them by any participation of sentiment.
The distance is nothing when one has a motive; only three miles.
At least, you should not _remind_ your mother of inviting him."
His letter was soon dispatched; for, though dilatory in undertaking business, he was quick in its execution.
They owed the restoration of Lydia, her character, every thing, to him.
_My_ affections and wishes are unchanged, but one word from you will silence me on this subject for ever."
Neither Jane nor Elizabeth were comfortable on this subject.
It cannot be for _me_--it cannot be for _my_ sake that his manners are thus softened.
He cannot know what Mr. Darcy is."
Mrs. Bennet was quite in the fidgets.
You are charmingly grouped, and appear to uncommon advantage.
He had not a temper to bear the sort of competition in which we stood--the sort of preference which was often given me."
"Now I am quite happy," said she, "for you will be as happy as myself.
Mr. Gardiner did not attempt to conceal these particulars from the Longbourn family.
and to see dear Wickham too!
I know it to be impossible."
In vain did she entreat him to stand up with somebody else, and offer to introduce him to any young lady in the room.
Both sisters were uncomfortable enough.
Mr. Darcy is engaged to my daughter.
What do you keep winking at me for?
I expected you to stay two months.
"As soon as ever Mr. Bingley comes, my dear," said Mrs. Bennet, "you will wait on him of course."
"I was never more surprised than by his behaviour to us.
Bingley was endeared to Darcy by the easiness, openness, and ductility of his temper, though no disposition could offer a greater contrast to his own, and though with his own he never appeared dissatisfied.
First of all, he asked Miss Lucas.
My good qualities are under your protection, and you are to exaggerate them as much as possible; and, in return, it belongs to me to find occasions for teasing and quarrelling with you as often as may be; and I shall begin directly by asking you what made you so unwilling to come to the point at last.
Every thing that is charming!
"And my aunt Phillips is sure it would do _me_ a great deal of good," added Kitty.
The day passed most pleasantly away; the morning in bustle and shopping, and the evening at one of the theatres.
At that ball, while I had the honour of dancing with you, I was first made acquainted, by Sir William Lucas's accidental information, that Bingley's attentions to your sister had given rise to a general expectation of their marriage.
She soon learnt that they were indebted for their present good understanding to the efforts of his aunt, who did call on him in her return through London, and there relate her journey to Longbourn, its motive, and the substance of her conversation with Elizabeth; dwelling emphatically on every expression of the latter which, in her ladyship's apprehension, peculiarly denoted her perverseness and assurance; in the belief that such a relation must assist her endeavours to obtain that promise from her nephew which she had refused to give.
I would advise you merely to put on whatever of your clothes is superior to the rest--there is no occasion for anything more.
Mr. Bingley and Jane were standing together, a little detached from the rest, and talked only to each other.
There--I have saved you the trouble of accounting for it; and really, all things considered, I begin to think it perfectly reasonable.
Mr. Hurst had therefore nothing to do, but to stretch himself on one of the sofas and go to sleep.
If there _were_ but such another man for you!"
Her carriage remained at the door, and Elizabeth saw that her waiting-woman was in it.
He merely added that he should not write again till he had something of importance to mention."
"Will you give me leave to defer your raptures till I write again?
She saw, with the creative eye of fancy, the streets of that gay bathing-place covered with officers.
how ardently did she long to know whether any of his were directed in a like manner.
"It is a compliment which I never pay to any place if I can avoid it."
Nor was Darcy's vindication, though grateful to her feelings, capable of consoling her for such discovery.
Mrs. Bennet was prevented replying by the entrance of the footman with a note for Miss Bennet; it came from Netherfield, and the servant waited for an answer.
"She has only one daughter, the heiress of Rosings, and of very extensive property."
There was now employment for the whole party--for though they could not all talk, they could all eat; and the beautiful pyramids of grapes, nectarines, and peaches soon collected them round the table.
They then went away.
This room was my late master's favourite room, and these miniatures are just as they used to be then.
"Oh!
Unfeeling, selfish girl!
She has two nieces of her own.
But though everything seemed neat and comfortable, she was not able to gratify him by any sigh of repentance, and rather looked with wonder at her friend that she could have so cheerful an air with such a companion.
Her astonishment, as she reflected on what had passed, was increased by every review of it.
She was met in the vestibule by Lydia, who, flying to her, cried in a half whisper, "I am glad you are come, for there is such fun here!
She stared, coloured, doubted, and was silent.
"But you _will_ know it, when I tell you what happened the very next day."
Sir William, how can you tell such a story?
She inquired after his sister, but could do no more.
"No more have I," said Mr. Bennet; "and I am glad to find that you do not depend on her serving you."
Very odd!
Breakfast was scarcely over when a servant from Netherfield brought the following note for Elizabeth:  "MY DEAREST LIZZY,--  "I find myself very unwell this morning, which, I suppose, is to be imputed to my getting wet through yesterday.
After this period every appearance of acquaintance was dropped.
"She is a very fine-looking woman!
A day or two passed before Jane had courage to speak of her feelings to Elizabeth; but at last, on Mrs. Bennet's leaving them together, after a longer irritation than usual about Netherfield and its master, she could not help saying:  "Oh, that my dear mother had more command over herself!
He does not want abilities.
Lizzy, to know that what I have to relate will give such pleasure to all my dear family!
"If I had been able," said she, "to carry my point in going to Brighton, with all my family, _this_ would not have happened; but poor dear Lydia had nobody to take care of her.
"You are a very strange creature by way of a friend!--always wanting me to play and sing before anybody and everybody!
"And quite alone?
"Oh well!
"They met again on Sunday, and then _I_ saw him too.
Bingley was the principal spokesman, and Miss Bennet the principal object.
The morrow produced no abatement of Mrs. Bennet's ill-humour or ill health.
Everybody is disgusted with his pride.
He took leave of his relations at Longbourn with as much solemnity as before; wished his fair cousins health and happiness again, and promised their father another letter of thanks.
But they were entirely ignorant of what had passed; and their raptures continued, with little intermission, to the very day of Lydia's leaving home.
In a few minutes, Mrs. Bennet half-opened the door and called out:  "Lizzy, my dear, I want to speak with you."
"Did Mr. Darcy give you reasons for this interference?"
But is it certain--absolutely certain?"
In future, I hope we shall be always of one mind."
It was not in their direct road, nor more than a mile or two out of it.
"Aye--that is because you have the right disposition.
Oh, sister!
What, all five out at once?
I must find Mr. Gardiner this moment, on business that cannot be delayed; I have not an instant to lose."
"Most willingly."
Mr. Darcy, who never looks at any woman but to see a blemish, and who probably never looked at you in his life!
But, Lizzy, this must go no farther than yourself, or Jane at most.
"But why should you wish to persuade me that I feel more than I acknowledge?"
I am joined with him in the guardianship of Miss Darcy."
Could you expect me to rejoice in the inferiority of your connections?--to congratulate myself on the hope of relations, whose condition in life is so decidedly beneath my own?"
She complained bitterly of all this to her husband.
"As often as I can.
She was not near enough to hear any of their discourse, but she could see how seldom they spoke to each other, and how formal and cold was their manner whenever they did.
It is a relation which you tell me is to give you great surprise; I hope at least it will not afford you any displeasure.
Easter was approaching, and the week preceding it was to bring an addition to the family at Rosings, which in so small a circle must be important.
He is his own master.
I hope you will drink to our good journey.
My mother means well; but she does not know, no one can know, how much I suffer from what she says.
"Are you indeed?
"Yes--_that_ is what makes it amusing.
Darcy!"
The whole family, in short, were properly overjoyed on the occasion.
"And remember that I have not much reason for supposing it to be Bingley.
But, perhaps, Mr. Bingley did not take the house so much for the convenience of the neighbourhood as for his own, and we must expect him to keep it or quit it on the same principle."
But it ought to be done, and if you will give me a sheet of paper, it shall be done directly."
Never, even in the company of his dear friends at Netherfield, or his dignified relations at Rosings, had she seen him so desirous to please, so free from self-consequence or unbending reserve, as now, when no importance could result from the success of his endeavours, and when even the acquaintance of those to whom his attentions were addressed would draw down the ridicule and censure of the ladies both of Netherfield and Rosings.
"My dear, dear Lydia!"
He promises fairly; and I hope among different people, where they may each have a character to preserve, they will both be more prudent.
"I leave it to yourself to determine," said Mr. Bennet.
You take delight in vexing me.
She was confident of having performed her duty, and to fret over unavoidable evils, or augment them by anxiety, was no part of her disposition.
If he _had another_ motive, I am sure it would never disgrace him.
After this day, Jane said no more of her indifference.
She was not of so ungovernable a temper as Lydia; and, removed from the influence of Lydia's example, she became, by proper attention and management, less irritable, less ignorant, and less insipid.
"This was a lucky idea of mine, indeed!"
"But you see that Jane," said her aunt, "does not think so very ill of Wickham as to believe him capable of the attempt."
"Are they indeed!"
He said as little as he had ever been in the habit of saying; made no mention of the business that had taken him away, and it was some time before his daughters had courage to speak of it.
"True.
Elizabeth was determined; nor did Sir William at all shake her purpose by his attempt at persuasion.
All field sports were over.
Your father was gone, your uncle at home, and, as I said before, they had a great deal of talk together.
But they are very pleasing women when you converse with them.
"And what arts did he use to separate them?"
She comes to us to-day.
I always had a value for him.
I mend pens remarkably well."
It will not do.
She was confident of having performed her duty, and to fret over unavoidable evils, or augment them by anxiety, was no part of her disposition.
Every thing that is charming!
"Pride," observed Mary, who piqued herself upon the solidity of her reflections, "is a very common failing, I believe.
"What you ask," said Elizabeth, "is no sacrifice on my side; and Mr. Darcy had much better finish his letter."
Colonel Forster believed that more than a thousand pounds would be necessary to clear his expenses at Brighton.
I had not thought so very ill of him.
I never in my life saw anything more elegant than their dresses.
Painful recollections will intrude which cannot, which ought not, to be repelled.
"I dare say she will; she has got over the most trying age."
When Jane and Elizabeth were alone, the former, who had been cautious in her praise of Mr. Bingley before, expressed to her sister just how very much she admired him.
He never said a great deal, nor did she give herself the trouble of talking or of listening much; but it struck her in the course of their third rencontre that he was asking some odd unconnected questions--about her pleasure in being at Hunsford, her love of solitary walks, and her opinion of Mr. and Mrs. Collins's happiness; and that in speaking of Rosings and her not perfectly understanding the house, he seemed to expect that whenever she came into Kent again she would be staying _there_ too.
Society, I own, is necessary to me.
The pause was to Elizabeth's feelings dreadful.
But in an instant arose the dreadful suspicion of his being purposely omitted for Mr. Darcy's pleasure in the Bingleys' invitation to the officers; and though this was not exactly the case, the absolute fact of his absence was pronounced by his friend Denny, to whom Lydia eagerly applied, and who told them that Wickham had been obliged to go to town on business the day before, and was not yet returned; adding, with a significant smile, "I do not imagine his business would have called him away just now, if he had not wanted to avoid a certain gentleman here."
"There _is_ something a little stately in him, to be sure," replied her aunt, "but it is confined to his air, and is not unbecoming.
Bingley, from this time, was of course a daily visitor at Longbourn; coming frequently before breakfast, and always remaining till after supper; unless when some barbarous neighbour, who could not be enough detested, had given him an invitation to dinner which he thought himself obliged to accept.
One does not know what to think."
But still he would be her husband.
Now, Lizzy, I think I _have_ surprised you.
Well, now let us be quite comfortable and snug, and talk and laugh all the way home.
But make a virtue of it by all means.
Other schemes, too, came into her head.
Do not let us quarrel about the past.
As they walked home, Elizabeth related to Jane what she had seen pass between the two gentlemen; but though Jane would have defended either or both, had they appeared to be in the wrong, she could no more explain such behaviour than her sister.
"That is very strange.
"Certainly," he replied, biting his lips.
This is the last time I shall ever remember it myself."
I was in great hopes that one of you would have got a husband before you came back.
Charlotte the wife of Mr. Collins was a most humiliating picture!
Other books were produced, and after some deliberation he chose Fordyce's Sermons.
"No indeed; I felt nothing but surprise."
Their visitors stayed with them above half-an-hour; and when they arose to depart, Mr. Darcy called on his sister to join him in expressing their wish of seeing Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner, and Miss Bennet, to dinner at Pemberley, before they left the country.
I am sure you must feel it so."
Do you pay no regard to the wishes of his friends?
It was to this effect:  "Since writing the above, dearest Lizzy, something has occurred of a most unexpected and serious nature; but I am afraid of alarming you--be assured that we are all well.
Impossible!
But enough of this.
"You judge very properly," said Mr. Bennet, "and it is happy for you that you possess the talent of flattering with delicacy.
The favour of your company has been much felt, I assure you.
Mrs. Bennet, we shall have her at Netherfield at last.'
"We have heard only twice.
"No," said Darcy, "I have made no such pretension.
"I never heard that it was."
cried Elizabeth, brightening up for a moment.
If you and Miss Bennet will defer yours till I am out of the room, I shall be very thankful; and then you may say whatever you like of me."
His present pursuit could not make him forget that Elizabeth had been the first to excite and to deserve his attention, the first to listen and to pity, the first to be admired; and in his manner of bidding her adieu, wishing her every enjoyment, reminding her of what she was to expect in Lady Catherine de Bourgh, and trusting their opinion of her--their opinion of everybody--would always coincide, there was a solicitude, an interest which she felt must ever attach her to him with a most sincere regard; and she parted from him convinced that, whether married or single, he must always be her model of the amiable and pleasing.
I had not an idea of it."
Sir William Lucas, and his daughter Maria, a good-humoured girl, but as empty-headed as himself, had nothing to say that could be worth hearing, and were listened to with about as much delight as the rattle of the chaise.
By supposing such an affection, you make everybody acting unnaturally and wrong, and me most unhappy.
There is nothing extravagant in _their_ housekeeping, I dare say."
"And till Colonel Forster came himself, not one of you entertained a doubt, I suppose, of their being really married?"
Has she any family?"
and what can _he_ have to say?"
But I will no longer importune my young cousin."
and yet you can treat the mention of his misfortune with contempt and ridicule."
"Something very much to the purpose of course.
Could you expect me to rejoice in the inferiority of your connections?--to congratulate myself on the hope of relations, whose condition in life is so decidedly beneath my own?"
Pray go to see them, with Sir William and Maria.
No sooner did he appear than Elizabeth wisely resolved to be perfectly easy and unembarrassed; a resolution the more necessary to be made, but perhaps not the more easily kept, because she saw that the suspicions of the whole party were awakened against them, and that there was scarcely an eye which did not watch his behaviour when he first came into the room.
Lady Catherine might see him in her way through town; and his engagement to Bingley of coming again to Netherfield must give way.
Mr. Bingley will not be detained in London by them."
cried his wife impatiently.
This room was my late master's favourite room, and these miniatures are just as they used to be then.
Lady Catherine had many other questions to ask respecting their journey, and as she did not answer them all herself, attention was necessary, which Elizabeth believed to be lucky for her; or, with a mind so occupied, she might have forgotten where she was.
"Can you deny that you have done it?"
"Yes, indeed, his friends may well rejoice in his having met with one of the very few sensible women who would have accepted him, or have made him happy if they had.
But of all the views which his garden, or which the country or kingdom could boast, none were to be compared with the prospect of Rosings, afforded by an opening in the trees that bordered the park nearly opposite the front of his house.
Lizzy, you must walk out with him again, that he may not be in Bingley's way."
Mr. Bingley's defense of his friend was a very able one, I dare say; but since he is unacquainted with several parts of the story, and has learnt the rest from that friend himself, I shall venture to still think of both gentlemen as I did before."
But _now_ suppose as much as you choose; give a loose rein to your fancy, indulge your imagination in every possible flight which the subject will afford, and unless you believe me actually married, you cannot greatly err.
"I wonder," said he, at the next opportunity of speaking, "whether he is likely to be in this country much longer."
She not unfrequently stopped at the Parsonage, and had a few minutes' conversation with Charlotte, but was scarcely ever prevailed upon to get out.
They agreed that Mrs. Bennet should only hear of the departure of the family, without being alarmed on the score of the gentleman's conduct; but even this partial communication gave her a great deal of concern, and she bewailed it as exceedingly unlucky that the ladies should happen to go away just as they were all getting so intimate together.
They then went away.
"I admire all my three sons-in-law highly," said he.
"I am sorry, exceedingly sorry," replied Darcy, in a tone of surprise and emotion, "that you have ever been informed of what may, in a mistaken light, have given you uneasiness.
"Aye, no doubt; but that is what a governess will prevent, and if I had known your mother, I should have advised her most strenuously to engage one.
"If he means to be but little at Netherfield, it would be better for the neighbourhood that he should give up the place entirely, for then we might possibly get a settled family there.
Make haste, and come down this moment."
Though Elizabeth would not, for the mere purpose of obliging Lady Catherine, have answered this question, she could not but say, after a moment's deliberation:  "I am not."
yes.
Mr. Bennet had very often wished before this period of his life that, instead of spending his whole income, he had laid by an annual sum for the better provision of his children, and of his wife, if she survived him.
She did indeed.
In vain did Elizabeth attempt to make her reasonable, and Jane to make her resigned.
Her heart did whisper that he had done it for her.
"Impossible, Mr. Bennet, impossible, when I am not acquainted with him myself; how can you be so teasing?"
And even Mary could assure her family that she had no disinclination for it.
Your lively talents would place you in the greatest danger in an unequal marriage.
"Yes.
It was, moreover, such a promising thing for her younger daughters, as Jane's marrying so greatly must throw them in the way of other rich men; and lastly, it was so pleasant at her time of life to be able to consign her single daughters to the care of their sister, that she might not be obliged to go into company more than she liked.
'This young gentleman is blessed, in a peculiar way, with every thing the heart of mortal can most desire,--splendid property, noble kindred, and extensive patronage.
She had very little notice from any but him.
She was roused from her seat, and her reflections, by some one's approach; and before she could strike into another path, she was overtaken by Wickham.
But against this there were objections; and she finally resolved that it could be the last resource, if her private inquiries to the absence of the family were unfavourably answered.
His anxiety for Jane was evident, and his attentions to herself most pleasing, and they prevented her feeling herself so much an intruder as she believed she was considered by the others.
Is her husband, is the son of his late father's steward, to be his brother?
He smiled, and assured her that whatever she wished him to say should be said.
It was a handsome modern building, well situated on rising ground.
Had not my feelings decided against you--had they been indifferent, or had they even been favourable, do you think that any consideration would tempt me to accept the man who has been the means of ruining, perhaps for ever, the happiness of a most beloved sister?"
"Oh!"
It was really a very handsome thought.
I am sick of them all.
Mr. Collins might never make the offer, and till he did, it was useless to quarrel about him.
Everybody said how well she looked; and Mr. Bingley thought her quite beautiful, and danced with her twice!
Bingley looked a little silly at this reflection, and said something of his concern at having been prevented by business.
When first Mr. Bennet had married, economy was held to be perfectly useless, for, of course, they were to have a son.
Your younger sisters must be very young?"
I thought Miss Elizabeth Bennet looked remarkably well when she came into the room this morning.
Hear me in silence.
for I ought not to have mentioned the subject.
"I certainly have not the talent which some people possess," said Darcy, "of conversing easily with those I have never seen before.
Had they fixed on any other man it would have been nothing; but _his_ perfect indifference, and _your_ pointed dislike, make it so delightfully absurd!
Her nose wants character--there is nothing marked in its lines.
Elizabeth felt that they had entirely misunderstood his character, but said nothing.
Every day at Longbourn was now a day of anxiety; but the most anxious part of each was when the post was expected.
"You are rather disposed to call his interference officious?"
Nothing could be more delightful!
"I had not at that time the honour of knowing any lady in the assembly beyond my own party."
They must be a great loss to _your_ family."
she cried.
"He made a little mistake to be sure; but it is to the credit of his modesty."
Elizabeth, however, did not choose to take the hint, being well aware that a serious dispute must be the consequence of any reply.
But it was her business to be satisfied--and certainly her temper to be happy; and all was soon right again.
He begged pardon for having displeased her.
"Yes; and I told him we should not be able to keep our engagement.
What he means to do I am sure I know not; but his excessive distress will not allow him to pursue any measure in the best and safest way, and Colonel Forster is obliged to be at Brighton again to-morrow evening.
"I admire the activity of your benevolence," observed Mary, "but every impulse of feeling should be guided by reason; and, in my opinion, exertion should always be in proportion to what is required."
"How can you be so silly," cried her mother, "as to think of such a thing, in all this dirt!
The others have been gone on to Scarborough, these three weeks."
It does not often happen that the interference of friends will persuade a young man of independent fortune to think no more of a girl whom he was violently in love with only a few days before."
The rest of the evening brought her little amusement.
"How good it was in you, my dear Mr. Bennet!
In a few minutes, Mrs. Bennet half-opened the door and called out:  "Lizzy, my dear, I want to speak with you."
I did not believe her to be indifferent because I wished it; I believed it on impartial conviction, as truly as I wished it in reason.
"Oh, yes!--if one could but go to Brighton!
Lady Lucas could not be insensible of triumph on being able to retort on Mrs. Bennet the comfort of having a daughter well married; and she called at Longbourn rather oftener than usual to say how happy she was, though Mrs. Bennet's sour looks and ill-natured remarks might have been enough to drive happiness away.
"You saw me dance at Meryton, I believe, sir."
At such a moment, the arrival of her friend was a sincere pleasure to Elizabeth, though in the course of their meetings she must sometimes think the pleasure dearly bought, when she saw Mr. Darcy exposed to all the parading and obsequious civility of her husband.
"Of music!
Since her father's death, her home has been London, where a lady lives with her, and superintends her education."
We had better not mention it.
She shared in their attendance on Mrs. Bennet, and was a great comfort to them in their hours of freedom.
Bingley?"
Do not involve yourself or endeavour to involve him in an affection which the want of fortune would make so very imprudent.
"And never allow yourself to be blinded by prejudice?"
"Aye--that is because you have the right disposition.
"I am trying to make it out."
I will not spend my hours in running after my neighbours every time they go away and come back again."
It became her turn to listen.
But Bingley has great natural modesty, with a stronger dependence on my judgement than on his own.
Elizabeth soon heard from her friend; and their correspondence was as regular and frequent as it had ever been; that it should be equally unreserved was impossible.
She looked at her father to entreat his interference, lest Mary should be singing all night.
There can be no love in all this.
And even Mary could assure her family that she had no disinclination for it.
Do your sisters play and sing?"
He can have nothing to say to me that anybody need not hear.
My dear Lizzy, they must have passed within ten miles of us.
On opening the door, she perceived her sister and Bingley standing together over the hearth, as if engaged in earnest conversation; and had this led to no suspicion, the faces of both, as they hastily turned round and moved away from each other, would have told it all.
_His_ eyes had been soon and repeatedly turned towards them with a look of curiosity; and that her ladyship, after a while, shared the feeling, was more openly acknowledged, for she did not scruple to call out:  "What is that you are saying, Fitzwilliam?
That _she_ could be in any danger from the deception never entered my head.
Mrs. Bennet treasured up the hint, and trusted that she might soon have two daughters married; and the man whom she could not bear to speak of the day before was now high in her good graces.
Can I speak plainer?
"If I have, I shall be the last person to confess it."
"I do not get on at all.
"That you were gone into the army, and she was afraid had--not turned out well.
"Yes, indeed, and received no inconsiderable pleasure from the sight.
At length Darcy spoke, and in a constrained manner said, "Mr. Wickham is blessed with such happy manners as may ensure his _making_ friends--whether he may be equally capable of _retaining_ them, is less certain."
I cannot quite agree with you _there_.
Their other aunt also visited them frequently, and always, as she said, with the design of cheering and heartening them up--though, as she never came without reporting some fresh instance of Wickham's extravagance or irregularity, she seldom went away without leaving them more dispirited than she found them.
It was Mr. Collins's picture of Hunsford and Rosings rationally softened; and Elizabeth perceived that she must wait for her own visit there to know the rest.
Well, he is a very undeserving young man--and I do not suppose there's the least chance in the world of her ever getting him now.
And since this sad affair has taken place, it is said that he left Meryton greatly in debt; but I hope this may be false."
Poor Kitty has anger for having concealed their attachment; but as it was a matter of confidence, one cannot wonder.
Her impatience for this second letter was as well rewarded as impatience generally is.
My courage always rises at every attempt to intimidate me."
She was then proceeding to all the particulars of calico, muslin, and cambric, and would shortly have dictated some very plentiful orders, had not Jane, though with some difficulty, persuaded her to wait till her father was at leisure to be consulted.
But if you will listen to his letter, you may perhaps be a little softened by his manner of expressing himself."
She was sure they should be married some time or other, and it did not much signify when.
Elizabeth related to Jane the next day what had passed between Mr. Wickham and herself.
A house in town!
why did she come?
And in the wretched state of his own finances, there was a very powerful motive for secrecy, in addition to his fear of discovery by Lydia's relations, for it had just transpired that he had left gaming debts behind him to a very considerable amount.
She was not sorry, however, to have the recital of them interrupted by the lady from whom they sprang.
I am therefore by no means discouraged by what you have just said, and shall hope to lead you to the altar ere long."
Soon after their return, a letter was delivered to Miss Bennet; it came from Netherfield.
Don't think me angry, however, for I only mean to let you know that I had not imagined such inquiries to be necessary on _your_ side.
A small part of Derbyshire is all the present concern.
They are destined for each other by the voice of every member of their respective houses; and what is to divide them?
Mr. Bennet protested against any description of finery.
The younger girls formed hopes of _coming out_ a year or two sooner than they might otherwise have done; and the boys were relieved from their apprehension of Charlotte's dying an old maid.
The hall, the dining-room, and all its furniture, were examined and praised; and his commendation of everything would have touched Mrs. Bennet's heart, but for the mortifying supposition of his viewing it all as his own future property.
It settled the matter; and they pursued the accustomed circuit; which brought them again, after some time, in a descent among hanging woods, to the edge of the water, and one of its narrowest parts.
In this danger Kitty also is comprehended.
Mary, however, continued to console herself with such kind of moral extractions from the evil before them.
With respect to Wickham, the travellers soon found that he was not held there in much estimation; for though the chief of his concerns with the son of his patron were imperfectly understood, it was yet a well-known fact that, on his quitting Derbyshire, he had left many debts behind him, which Mr. Darcy afterwards discharged.
He had ruined for a while every hope of happiness for the most affectionate, generous heart in the world; and no one could say how lasting an evil he might have inflicted.
"What, is he coming home, and without poor Lydia?"
"Your examination of Mr. Darcy is over, I presume," said Miss Bingley; "and pray what is the result?"
The garden sloping to the road, the house standing in it, the green pales, and the laurel hedge, everything declared they were arriving.
"Do you prefer reading to cards?"
He must know that she was as amiable and unpretending as we have found her."
We may as well wait, perhaps, till the circumstance occurs before we discuss the discretion of his behaviour thereupon.
But he found, in reply to this question, that Wickham still cherished the hope of more effectually making his fortune by marriage in some other country.
With amazement did she first understand that he believed any apology to be in his power; and steadfastly was she persuaded, that he could have no explanation to give, which a just sense of shame would not conceal.
You were not by, when I told mamma and the others all about it.
When Mr. Collins said anything of which his wife might reasonably be ashamed, which certainly was not unseldom, she involuntarily turned her eye on Charlotte.
He paused in hopes of an answer; but his companion was not disposed to make any; and Elizabeth at that instant moving towards them, he was struck with the action of doing a very gallant thing, and called out to her:  "My dear Miss Eliza, why are you not dancing?
"Very true; and if I had my will, we should.
The officers may not be so pleasant in General ----'s regiment."
As Mrs. Gardiner began to wish to be at home, it was settled that she and the children should go to London, at the same time that Mr. Bennet came from it.
"I desire you will do no such thing.
Then pray speak aloud.
But in spite of all this fine talking, my dear Lizzy, you may rest perfectly assured that your uncle would never have yielded, if we had not given him credit for _another interest_ in the affair.
Oh!
Among those who are at all his equals in consequence, he is a very different man from what he is to the less prosperous.
Her daughters were eagerly called to partake of her joy.
Four sides of paper were insufficient to contain all her delight, and all her earnest desire of being loved by her sister.
When, after examining the mother, in whose countenance and deportment she soon found some resemblance of Mr. Darcy, she turned her eyes on the daughter, she could almost have joined in Maria's astonishment at her being so thin and so small.
"It seems likely to have been a desirable match for Jane," said she.
"Do you consider the forms of introduction, and the stress that is laid on them, as nonsense?
"I can much more easily believe Mr. Bingley's being imposed on, than that Mr. Wickham should invent such a history of himself as he gave me last night; names, facts, everything mentioned without ceremony.
But I will no longer importune my young cousin."
Since her being at Lambton, she had heard that Miss Darcy was exceedingly proud; but the observation of a very few minutes convinced her that she was only exceedingly shy.
Perhaps he had been civil only because he felt himself at ease; yet there had been _that_ in his voice which was not like ease.
She accounted for it, however, by supposing that her last letter to her friend from Longbourn had by some accident been lost.
So, do not put yourself to inconvenience."
"If I can but see one of my daughters happily settled at Netherfield," said Mrs. Bennet to her husband, "and all the others equally well married, I shall have nothing to wish for."
"Don't keep coughing so, Kitty, for Heaven's sake!
"You must not be too severe upon yourself," replied Elizabeth.
When Elizabeth had rejoiced over Wickham's departure she found little other cause for satisfaction in the loss of the regiment.
"Did Mr. Darcy give you reasons for this interference?"
Yes, there was something in _that_; I told you so from the first, you may remember."
"This is an evening of wonders, indeed!
"Your picture may be very exact, Louisa," said Bingley; "but this was all lost upon me.
As a brother, a landlord, a master, she considered how many people's happiness were in his guardianship!--how much of pleasure or pain was it in his power to bestow!--how much of good or evil must be done by him!
was a wonder which introduced the discussion of their affairs.
"And so was I."
She paused, and saw with no slight indignation that he was listening with an air which proved him wholly unmoved by any feeling of remorse.
"Lizzy, when you first read that letter, I am sure you could not treat the matter as you do now."
"I am not afraid of you," said he, smilingly.
The two girls had been whispering to each other during the whole visit, and the result of it was, that the youngest should tax Mr. Bingley with having promised on his first coming into the country to give a ball at Netherfield.
Into _one_ house in this neighbourhood they shall never have admittance.
Elizabeth, however, had never been blind to the impropriety of her father's behaviour as a husband.
Mrs. Hurst and her sister allowed it to be so--but still they admired her and liked her, and pronounced her to be a sweet girl, and one whom they would not object to know more of.
Elizabeth Bennet had been obliged, by the scarcity of gentlemen, to sit down for two dances; and during part of that time, Mr. Darcy had been standing near enough for her to hear a conversation between him and Mr. Bingley, who came from the dance for a few minutes, to press his friend to join it.
sir, I do indeed.
"Not as you represent it.
It was very strange that he should come to Longbourn instead of to Lucas Lodge; it was also very inconvenient and exceedingly troublesome.
As they walked across the hall towards the river, Elizabeth turned back to look again; her uncle and aunt stopped also, and while the former was conjecturing as to the date of the building, the owner of it himself suddenly came forward from the road, which led behind it to the stables.
But it is always so.
They saw much to interest, but nothing to justify inquiry.
"Oh!
When the party broke up, Lydia returned with Mrs. Forster to Meryton, from whence they were to set out early the next morning.
At present I will say nothing about it."
They were within twenty yards of each other, and so abrupt was his appearance, that it was impossible to avoid his sight.
cried Elizabeth.
By Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley they were noticed only by a curtsey; and, on their being seated, a pause, awkward as such pauses must always be, succeeded for a few moments.
It is a nice long walk, and Mr. Darcy has never seen the view."
It was spoken of again while they were at dinner, when Mr. Collins joining in, observed:  "Yes, Miss Elizabeth, you will have the honour of seeing Lady Catherine de Bourgh on the ensuing Sunday at church, and I need not say you will be delighted with her.
Jane was distressed.
I came to you without a doubt of my reception.
Occupied in observing Mr. Bingley's attentions to her sister, Elizabeth was far from suspecting that she was herself becoming an object of some interest in the eyes of his friend.
Elizabeth hoped she had silenced him; but he soon afterwards said:  "I was surprised to see Darcy in town last month.
Without a governess, you must have been neglected."
His anxiety for Jane was evident, and his attentions to herself most pleasing, and they prevented her feeling herself so much an intruder as she believed she was considered by the others.
* * * * *  In the evening, soon after Mr. Bennet withdrew to the library, she saw Mr. Darcy rise also and follow him, and her agitation on seeing it was extreme.
His brother-in-law, Mr. Hurst, merely looked the gentleman; but his friend Mr. Darcy soon drew the attention of the room by his fine, tall person, handsome features, noble mien, and the report which was in general circulation within five minutes after his entrance, of his having ten thousand a year.
"This must be a most inconvenient sitting room for the evening, in summer; the windows are full west."
It is very hard to think that she might have been Mr. Collins's wife by this time, had it not been for her own perverseness.
"Certainly.
Bingley was every thing that was charming, except the professed lover of her daughter.
When she thought of her mother, her confidence gave way a little; but she would not allow that any objections _there_ had material weight with Mr. Darcy, whose pride, she was convinced, would receive a deeper wound from the want of importance in his friend's connections, than from their want of sense; and she was quite decided, at last, that he had been partly governed by this worst kind of pride, and partly by the wish of retaining Mr. Bingley for his sister.
Painful recollections will intrude which cannot, which ought not, to be repelled.
Her thoughts were instantly driven back to the time when Mr. Bingley's name had been the last mentioned between them; and, if she might judge by his complexion, _his_ mind was not very differently engaged.
My father was not only fond of this young man's society, whose manners were always engaging; he had also the highest opinion of him, and hoping the church would be his profession, intended to provide for him in it.
On the contrary, there is something pleasing about his mouth when he speaks.
"He is now gone into the army," she added; "but I am afraid he has turned out very wild."
Assistance is impossible; condolence insufferable.
"I told you, the other day, of his infamous behaviour to Mr. Darcy; and you yourself, when last at Longbourn, heard in what manner he spoke of the man who had behaved with such forbearance and liberality towards him.
They were to be off as soon as possible.
They had now entered a beautiful walk by the side of the water, and every step was bringing forward a nobler fall of ground, or a finer reach of the woods to which they were approaching; but it was some time before Elizabeth was sensible of any of it; and, though she answered mechanically to the repeated appeals of her uncle and aunt, and seemed to direct her eyes to such objects as they pointed out, she distinguished no part of the scene.
Mr. Collins returned most punctually on Monday fortnight, but his reception at Longbourn was not quite so gracious as it had been on his first introduction.
When dinner was over, she returned directly to Jane, and Miss Bingley began abusing her as soon as she was out of the room.
It was to this effect:  "Since writing the above, dearest Lizzy, something has occurred of a most unexpected and serious nature; but I am afraid of alarming you--be assured that we are all well.
Mrs. Collins will be very glad of your company, I am sure."
For the last week they had seen very little of Lady Catherine or her daughter.
Elizabeth was eager with her thanks and assurances of happiness.
Their affectionate mother shared all their grief; she remembered what she had herself endured on a similar occasion, five-and-twenty years ago.
Elizabeth was not comfortable; that was impossible; but she was flattered and pleased.
Mr. Robinson's asking him how he liked our Meryton assemblies, and whether he did not think there were a great many pretty women in the room, and _which_ he thought the prettiest?
The colour which had been driven from her face, returned for half a minute with an additional glow, and a smile of delight added lustre to her eyes, as she thought for that space of time that his affection and wishes must still be unshaken.
She felt that Jane's feelings, though fervent, were little displayed, and that there was a constant complacency in her air and manner not often united with great sensibility.
Elizabeth instantly read her feelings, and at that moment solicitude for Wickham, resentment against his enemies, and everything else, gave way before the hope of Jane's being in the fairest way for happiness.
She looked forward to their entrance as the point on which all her chance of pleasure for the evening must depend.
Nothing less than the complaisance of a courtier could have borne without anger such treatment; but Sir William's good breeding carried him through it all; and though he begged leave to be positive as to the truth of his information, he listened to all their impertinence with the most forbearing courtesy.
The sudden acquisition of ten thousand pounds was the most remarkable charm of the young lady to whom he was now rendering himself agreeable; but Elizabeth, less clear-sighted perhaps in this case than in Charlotte's, did not quarrel with him for his wish of independence.
Mr. Darcy took her place by her niece, and they walked on together.
shocking!"
Let us hope, therefore, that her being there may teach her her own insignificance.
"And is Miss Darcy as handsome as her brother?"
"Money!
He even looked at her with a smile of affected incredulity.
But these are not Jane's feelings; she is not acting by design.
Every disposition of the ground was good; and she looked on the whole scene, the river, the trees scattered on its banks and the winding of the valley, as far as she could trace it, with delight.
Perhaps I did not always love him so well as I do now.
Elizabeth, particularly, who knew that her mother owed to the latter the preservation of her favourite daughter from irremediable infamy, was hurt and distressed to a most painful degree by a distinction so ill applied.
"But if he does it any more I shall certainly let him know that I see what he is about.
I am sure you will be very comfortable there.--Yours, etc."
Mrs. Gardiner about this time reminded Elizabeth of her promise concerning that gentleman, and required information; and Elizabeth had such to send as might rather give contentment to her aunt than to herself.
Her mother would talk of her views in the same intelligible tone.
He stood by her, however, for some minutes, in silence; and, at last, on the young lady's whispering to Elizabeth again, he walked away.
cried Elizabeth, as soon as they were by themselves.
Lydia gaped as he opened the volume, and before he had, with very monotonous solemnity, read three pages, she interrupted him with:  "Do you know, mamma, that my uncle Phillips talks of turning away Richard; and if he does, Colonel Forster will hire him.
We live in so different a part of town, all our connections are so different, and, as you well know, we go out so little, that it is very improbable that they should meet at all, unless he really comes to see her."
Do you know Mr.
Elizabeth hesitated, but her knees trembled under her and she felt how little would be gained by her attempting to pursue them.
It does not often happen that the interference of friends will persuade a young man of independent fortune to think no more of a girl whom he was violently in love with only a few days before."
The two youngest of the family, Catherine and Lydia, were particularly frequent in these attentions; their minds were more vacant than their sisters', and when nothing better offered, a walk to Meryton was necessary to amuse their morning hours and furnish conversation for the evening; and however bare of news the country in general might be, they always contrived to learn some from their aunt.
Mr. Denny addressed them directly, and entreated permission to introduce his friend, Mr. Wickham, who had returned with him the day before from town, and he was happy to say had accepted a commission in their corps.
But that is nothing to us.
There is a stubbornness about me that never can bear to be frightened at the will of others.
Lady Lucas could not be insensible of triumph on being able to retort on Mrs. Bennet the comfort of having a daughter well married; and she called at Longbourn rather oftener than usual to say how happy she was, though Mrs. Bennet's sour looks and ill-natured remarks might have been enough to drive happiness away.
"Will you give me leave to defer your raptures till I write again?
"Come, Darcy," said he, "I must have you dance.
These bitter accusations might have been suppressed, had I, with greater policy, concealed my struggles, and flattered you into the belief of my being impelled by unqualified, unalloyed inclination; by reason, by reflection, by everything.
The idea of the olive-branch perhaps is not wholly new, yet I think it is well expressed."
I do not know the particulars, but I know very well that Mr. Darcy is not in the least to blame, that he cannot bear to hear George Wickham mentioned, and that though my brother thought that he could not well avoid including him in his invitation to the officers, he was excessively glad to find that he had taken himself out of the way.
He must write his own sermons; and the time that remains will not be too much for his parish duties, and the care and improvement of his dwelling, which he cannot be excused from making as comfortable as possible.
How rejoiced was Elizabeth that their own journey had not by any circumstance been delayed a day!
It will pass away soon enough."
Elizabeth listened as little as she could, but there was no escaping the frequent mention of Wickham's name.
While Sir William was with them, Mr. Collins devoted his morning to driving him out in his gig, and showing him the country; but when he went away, the whole family returned to their usual employments, and Elizabeth was thankful to find that they did not see more of her cousin by the alteration, for the chief of the time between breakfast and dinner was now passed by him either at work in the garden or in reading and writing, and looking out of the window in his own book-room, which fronted the road.
Mr. Bingley had soon made himself acquainted with all the principal people in the room; he was lively and unreserved, danced every dance, was angry that the ball closed so early, and talked of giving one himself at Netherfield.
This is the last time I shall ever remember it myself."
I am not to be intimidated into anything so wholly unreasonable.
But do you always write such charming long letters to her, Mr.
And we all know that Wickham has every charm of person and address that can captivate a woman."
But Jane and Elizabeth, who agreed in wishing, for the sake of their sister's feelings and consequence, that she should be noticed on her marriage by her parents, urged him so earnestly yet so rationally and so mildly, to receive her and her husband at Longbourn, as soon as they were married, that he was prevailed on to think as they thought, and act as they wished.
In revolving Lady Catherine's expressions, however, she could not help feeling some uneasiness as to the possible consequence of her persisting in this interference.
_That_ is my idea of good breeding; and those persons who fancy themselves very important, and never open their mouths, quite mistake the matter."
"Why, I must confess that I love him better than I do Bingley.
You are safe from me."
"I must confess that he did not speak so well of Wickham as he formerly did.
But little had she dared to hope that so much love and eloquence awaited her there.
When they repaired to the dining-room, Elizabeth eagerly watched to see whether Bingley would take the place, which, in all their former parties, had belonged to him, by her sister.
"Have you any idea, Lizzy, who this gentleman is?
They returned, therefore, in good spirits to Longbourn, the village where they lived, and of which they were the principal inhabitants.
She continued in very agitated reflections till the sound of Lady Catherine's carriage made her feel how unequal she was to encounter Charlotte's observation, and hurried her away to her room.
How can Mr. Bingley, who seems good humour itself, and is, I really believe, truly amiable, be in friendship with such a man?
"By all means," cried Bingley; "let us hear all the particulars, not forgetting their comparative height and size; for that will have more weight in the argument, Miss Bennet, than you may be aware of.
And will you give yourself the trouble of carrying similar assurances to his creditors in Meryton, of whom I shall subjoin a list according to his information?
I shall write again as soon as anything more is determined on.
She had dressed with more than usual care, and prepared in the highest spirits for the conquest of all that remained unsubdued of his heart, trusting that it was not more than might be won in the course of the evening.
Lydia, my love, ring the bell--I must speak to Hill this moment."
I cannot quite agree with you _there_.
I have been a disappointed man, and my spirits will not bear solitude.
There is no danger of Wickham's marrying Mary King.
He is, indeed.
It is Mr. Wickham's intention to go into the regulars; and among his former friends, there are still some who are able and willing to assist him in the army.
Accept my thanks for the compliment you are paying me.
She had a sister married to a Mr. Phillips, who had been a clerk to their father and succeeded him in the business, and a brother settled in London in a respectable line of trade.
"Upon my word, I cannot exactly explain the matter; Darcy must speak for himself."
"I do not recollect that we did."
Colonel Fitzwilliam's manners were very much admired at the Parsonage, and the ladies all felt that he must add considerably to the pleasures of their engagements at Rosings.
It was an union that must have been to the advantage of both; by her ease and liveliness, his mind might have been softened, his manners improved; and from his judgement, information, and knowledge of the world, she must have received benefit of greater importance.
Though her manner varied, however, her determination never did.
It was an union that must have been to the advantage of both; by her ease and liveliness, his mind might have been softened, his manners improved; and from his judgement, information, and knowledge of the world, she must have received benefit of greater importance.
She was going to the butcher's, she told me, on purpose to order in some meat on Wednesday, and she has got three couple of ducks just fit to be killed."
"Very well.
Mrs. Gardiner looked at her niece, desirous of knowing how _she_, whom the invitation most concerned, felt disposed as to its acceptance, but Elizabeth had turned away her head.
A promise of secrecy was of course very dutifully given, but it could not be kept without difficulty; for the curiosity excited by his long absence burst forth in such very direct questions on his return as required some ingenuity to evade, and he was at the same time exercising great self-denial, for he was longing to publish his prosperous love.
Their mutual affection will steady them; and I flatter myself they will settle so quietly, and live in so rational a manner, as may in time make their past imprudence forgotten."
How little did you tell me of what passed at Pemberley and Lambton!
Miss Darcy and her brother appeared, and this formidable introduction took place.
In talking over their route the evening before, Mrs. Gardiner expressed an inclination to see the place again.
I never met with anybody who delighted me so much.
I am so grieved for him!
Elizabeth had heard soon after her arrival that Mr. Darcy was expected there in the course of a few weeks, and though there were not many of her acquaintances whom she did not prefer, his coming would furnish one comparatively new to look at in their Rosings parties, and she might be amused in seeing how hopeless Miss Bingley's designs on him were, by his behaviour to his cousin, for whom he was evidently destined by Lady Catherine, who talked of his coming with the greatest satisfaction, spoke of him in terms of the highest admiration, and seemed almost angry to find that he had already been frequently seen by Miss Lucas and herself.
She does not yet leave her dressing-room.
A long dispute followed this declaration; but Mr. Bennet was firm.
"No," said Colonel Fitzwilliam, "that is an advantage which he must divide with me.
Ignorant as you previously were of everything concerning either, detection could not be in your power, and suspicion certainly not in your inclination.
Her favourite walk, and where she frequently went while the others were calling on Lady Catherine, was along the open grove which edged that side of the park, where there was a nice sheltered path, which no one seemed to value but herself, and where she felt beyond the reach of Lady Catherine's curiosity.
Wickham was not at all more distressed than herself, but his manners were always so pleasing, that had his character and his marriage been exactly what they ought, his smiles and his easy address, while he claimed their relationship, would have delighted them all.
She owed her greatest relief to her friend Miss Lucas, who often joined them, and good-naturedly engaged Mr. Collins's conversation to herself.
"What think you of books?"
I always say that nothing is to be done in education without steady and regular instruction, and nobody but a governess can give it.
She then ran gaily off, rejoicing as she rambled about, in the hope of being at home again in a day or two.
I hoped to find you reasonable; but, depend upon it, I will carry my point."
Very little was said by either; Kitty was too much afraid of him to talk; Elizabeth was secretly forming a desperate resolution; and perhaps he might be doing the same.
"Well, mamma," said she, when they were all returned to the breakfast room, "and what do you think of my husband?
"Her indifferent state of health unhappily prevents her being in town; and by that means, as I told Lady Catherine one day, has deprived the British court of its brightest ornament.
I am perfectly satisfied, from what his manners now are, that he never had any design of engaging my affection.
The Gardiners stayed only one night at Longbourn, and set off the next morning with Elizabeth in pursuit of novelty and amusement.
"I certainly have not the talent which some people possess," said Darcy, "of conversing easily with those I have never seen before.
But if I go on, I shall displease you by saying what I think of persons you esteem.
Jane was anxious that no difference should be perceived in her at all, and was really persuaded that she talked as much as ever.
But no sooner had he made it clear to himself and his friends that she hardly had a good feature in her face, than he began to find it was rendered uncommonly intelligent by the beautiful expression of her dark eyes.
On the contrary, every particular relative to his sister was meant to be kept as much as possible to myself; and if I endeavour to undeceive people as to the rest of his conduct, who will believe me?
The consequence of it is, that Lady Lucas will have a daughter married before I have, and that the Longbourn estate is just as much entailed as ever.
She retreated from the window, fearful of being seen; and as she walked up and down the room, endeavouring to compose herself, saw such looks of inquiring surprise in her uncle and aunt as made everything worse.
Only think what a miserable summer else we shall have!"
Colonel Fitzwilliam's occasionally laughing at his stupidity, proved that he was generally different, which her own knowledge of him could not have told her; and as she would liked to have believed this change the effect of love, and the object of that love her friend Eliza, she set herself seriously to work to find it out.
"Very well.
At length, quite exhausted by the attempt to be amused with her own book, which she had only chosen because it was the second volume of his, she gave a great yawn and said, "How pleasant it is to spend an evening in this way!
She expected every moment that some of the gentlemen would enter the room.
"It seems likely to have been a desirable match for Jane," said she.
It was not thought necessary in Sir Lewis de Bourgh's family.
_that_ abominable Mr. Darcy!
Elizabeth looked surprised.
I see the imprudence of it.
Twice has she condescended to give me her opinion (unasked too!)
Nothing less than the complaisance of a courtier could have borne without anger such treatment; but Sir William's good breeding carried him through it all; and though he begged leave to be positive as to the truth of his information, he listened to all their impertinence with the most forbearing courtesy.
Lizzy, you must walk out with him again, that he may not be in Bingley's way."
As he spoke there was a sort of smile which Elizabeth fancied she understood; he must be supposing her to be thinking of Jane and Netherfield, and she blushed as she answered:  "I do not mean to say that a woman may not be settled too near her family.
He _spoke_ of apprehension and anxiety, but his countenance expressed real security.
With a renewal of tenderness, however, they returned to her room on leaving the dining-parlour, and sat with her till summoned to coffee.
With many compliments to them, and much self-gratulation on the prospect of a connection between the houses, he unfolded the matter--to an audience not merely wondering, but incredulous; for Mrs. Bennet, with more perseverance than politeness, protested he must be entirely mistaken; and Lydia, always unguarded and often uncivil, boisterously exclaimed:  "Good Lord!
They had now entered a beautiful walk by the side of the water, and every step was bringing forward a nobler fall of ground, or a finer reach of the woods to which they were approaching; but it was some time before Elizabeth was sensible of any of it; and, though she answered mechanically to the repeated appeals of her uncle and aunt, and seemed to direct her eyes to such objects as they pointed out, she distinguished no part of the scene.
Were the same fair prospect to arise at present as had flattered them a year ago, every thing, she was persuaded, would be hastening to the same vexatious conclusion.
He must know that she was as amiable and unpretending as we have found her."
Her sister, however, assured her of her being perfectly well; and their conversation, which had been passing while Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner were engaged with their children, was now put an end to by the approach of the whole party.
"If my children are silly, I must hope to be always sensible of it."
"I would not on any account trifle with her affectionate solicitude; or allow her to hear it from anyone but myself.
I assure you, that if Darcy were not such a great tall fellow, in comparison with myself, I should not pay him half so much deference.
said he, smiling.
Elizabeth soon perceived, that though this great lady was not in commission of the peace of the county, she was a most active magistrate in her own parish, the minutest concerns of which were carried to her by Mr. Collins; and whenever any of the cottagers were disposed to be quarrelsome, discontented, or too poor, she sallied forth into the village to settle their differences, silence their complaints, and scold them into harmony and plenty.
A lively imagination soon settled it all.
But when you have had time to think it over, I hope you will be satisfied with what I have done.
It has often led him to be liberal and generous, to give his money freely, to display hospitality, to assist his tenants, and relieve the poor.
"You are uniformly charming!"
GARDINER."
You tear them to pieces."
But I am willing to hope the best, and that his character has been misunderstood.
"You are quite a visit in my debt, Mr. Bingley," she added, "for when you went to town last winter, you promised to take a family dinner with us, as soon as you returned.
The introduction was followed up on his side by a happy readiness of conversation--a readiness at the same time perfectly correct and unassuming; and the whole party were still standing and talking together very agreeably, when the sound of horses drew their notice, and Darcy and Bingley were seen riding down the street.
Elizabeth was in agonies.
He begged pardon for having displeased her.
She talked to Elizabeth again and again; coaxed and threatened her by turns.
"Wickham is not so undeserving, then, as we thought him," said her sister.
Miss Bennet was therefore established as a sweet girl, and their brother felt authorized by such commendation to think of her as he chose.
"That is very true," replied Elizabeth, "and I could easily forgive _his_ pride, if he had not mortified _mine_."
But do you always write such charming long letters to her, Mr.
"Well," cried Elizabeth, "have it as you choose.
and yet how many things have happened!"
"Oh, Jane, had we been less secret, had we told what we knew of him, this could not have happened!"
Why should _he_ have it more than anybody else?"
She had dressed with more than usual care, and prepared in the highest spirits for the conquest of all that remained unsubdued of his heart, trusting that it was not more than might be won in the course of the evening.
I am sure you must feel it so."
I was sure you loved your girls too well to neglect such an acquaintance.
He began to wish to know more of her, and as a step towards conversing with her himself, attended to her conversation with others.
"FITZWILLIAM DARCY"       If Elizabeth, when Mr. Darcy gave her the letter, did not expect it to contain a renewal of his offers, she had formed no expectation at all of its contents.
"I shall be very fit to see Jane--which is all I want."
"But," he added, "you will of course wish to have your humble respects delivered to them, with your grateful thanks for their kindness to you while you have been here."
Young ladies of her age are sometimes a little difficult to manage, and if she has the true Darcy spirit, she may like to have her own way."
"And of your infliction," cried Elizabeth with energy.
They now walked on in silence, each of them deep in thought.
He had been some days in town, before he was able to discover them; but he had something to direct his search, which was more than _we_ had; and the consciousness of this was another reason for his resolving to follow us.
Elizabeth, for the sake of saying something that might turn her mother's thoughts, now asked her if Charlotte Lucas had been at Longbourn since _her_ coming away.
I remember the time when I liked a red coat myself very well--and, indeed, so I do still at my heart; and if a smart young colonel, with five or six thousand a year, should want one of my girls I shall not say nay to him; and I thought Colonel Forster looked very becoming the other night at Sir William's in his regimentals."
But I will not torment you with vain wishes, which may seem purposely to ask for your thanks.
"Oh!
"Then you would drink a great deal more than you ought," said Mrs. Bennet; "and if I were to see you at it, I should take away your bottle directly."
His consenting to marry her is a proof, I will believe, that he is come to a right way of thinking.
"That would be a good scheme," said Elizabeth, "if you were sure that they would not offer to send her home."
and she was the only creature in the room that he asked a second time.
She was at least free from the offense of Mr. Darcy's further notice; though often standing within a very short distance of her, quite disengaged, he never came near enough to speak.
Only think what an establishment it would be for one of them.
She practises very constantly."
Tease calmness of manner and presence of mind!
The justice of the charge struck her too forcibly for denial, and the circumstances to which he particularly alluded as having passed at the Netherfield ball, and as confirming all his first disapprobation, could not have made a stronger impression on his mind than on hers.
And upon Elizabeth's seeming really, with vexed and embarrassed looks, about to escape, she added: "Lizzy, I _insist_ upon your staying and hearing Mr.
"The first wish of my heart," said she to herself, "is never more to be in company with either of them.
If his own vanity, however, did not mislead him, _he_ was the cause, his pride and caprice were the cause, of all that Jane had suffered, and still continued to suffer.
To Elizabeth, however, he voluntarily acknowledged that the necessity of his absence _had_ been self-imposed.
My temper I dare not vouch for.
Her performance was pleasing, though by no means capital.
My situation in life, my connections with the family of de Bourgh, and my relationship to your own, are circumstances highly in my favour; and you should take it into further consideration, that in spite of your manifold attractions, it is by no means certain that another offer of marriage may ever be made you.
Oh, Lord!
A lively imagination soon settled it all.
To convince him, therefore, that he had deceived himself, was no very difficult point.
Every girl in or near Meryton was out of her senses about him for the first two months; but he never distinguished _her_ by any particular attention; and, consequently, after a moderate period of extravagant and wild admiration, her fancy for him gave way, and others of the regiment, who treated her with more distinction, again became her favourites."
"I do not recollect that we did."
And with regard to the resentment of his family, or the indignation of the world, if the former _were_ excited by his marrying me, it would not give me one moment's concern--and the world in general would have too much sense to join in the scorn."
Elizabeth was surprised, but agreed to it immediately.
I grieve to find, however, that Colonel F. is not disposed to depend upon their marriage; he shook his head when I expressed my hopes, and said he feared W. was not a man to be trusted.
All that is known after this is, that they were seen to continue the London road.
"Kitty has no discretion in her coughs," said her father; "she times them ill."  "I do not cough for my own amusement," replied Kitty fretfully.
One may be continually abusive without saying anything just; but one cannot always be laughing at a man without now and then stumbling on something witty."
"Well, Lizzy," continued her mother, soon afterwards, "and so the Collinses live very comfortable, do they?
But, however, that shan't prevent my asking him to dine here, I am determined.
By Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley they were noticed only by a curtsey; and, on their being seated, a pause, awkward as such pauses must always be, succeeded for a few moments.
Charlotte's first letters were received with a good deal of eagerness; there could not but be curiosity to know how she would speak of her new home, how she would like Lady Catherine, and how happy she would dare pronounce herself to be; though, when the letters were read, Elizabeth felt that Charlotte expressed herself on every point exactly as she might have foreseen.
One enjoyment was certain--that of suitableness of companions; a suitableness which comprehended health and temper to bear inconveniences--cheerfulness to enhance every pleasure--and affection and intelligence, which might supply it among themselves if there were disappointments abroad.
Oh!
"Well, well," said he, "do not make yourself unhappy.
Elizabeth, for the sake of saying something that might turn her mother's thoughts, now asked her if Charlotte Lucas had been at Longbourn since _her_ coming away.
Elizabeth, as they drove along, watched for the first appearance of Pemberley Woods with some perturbation; and when at length they turned in at the lodge, her spirits were in a high flutter.
She followed her father to the fire place, and they both sat down.
I never heard you speak ill of a human being in your life."
"I expected at least that the pigs were got into the garden, and here is nothing but Lady Catherine and her daughter."
Miss Darcy looked as if she wished for courage enough to join in it; and sometimes did venture a short sentence when there was least danger of its being heard.
"They have both," said she, "been deceived, I dare say, in some way or other, of which we can form no idea.
I am sure we owe him no such particular civility as to be obliged to say nothing _he_ may not like to hear."
Her father was walking about the room, looking grave and anxious.
Every park has its beauty and its prospects; and Elizabeth saw much to be pleased with, though she could not be in such raptures as Mr. Collins expected the scene to inspire, and was but slightly affected by his enumeration of the windows in front of the house, and his relation of what the glazing altogether had originally cost Sir Lewis de Bourgh.
"Now I am quite happy," said she, "for you will be as happy as myself.
This match, to which you have the presumption to aspire, can never take place.
Do let the portraits of your uncle and aunt Phillips be placed in the gallery at Pemberley.
He owed a good deal in town, but his debts of honour were still more formidable.
"Perhaps we might be deceived."
But it is all--all too late now."
I am very glad you have somebody who thinks of these things.
Elizabeth, however, had never been blind to the impropriety of her father's behaviour as a husband.
I hope there was.
Balls will be absolutely prohibited, unless you stand up with one of your sisters.
"How could I ever think her like her nephew?"
Mr. Collins might never make the offer, and till he did, it was useless to quarrel about him.
Mr. Bennet, in equal silence, was enjoying the scene.
it was melancholy to leave her to such society!
Nor did he seem much more at ease; when he spoke, his accent had none of its usual sedateness; and he repeated his inquiries as to the time of her having left Longbourn, and of her having stayed in Derbyshire, so often, and in so hurried a way, as plainly spoke the distraction of his thoughts.
She looked at his two sisters, and saw them making signs of derision at each other, and at Darcy, who continued, however, imperturbably grave.
Thank Heaven!
We dine at Rosings twice every week, and are never allowed to walk home.
"From the former.
"A gentleman and a stranger!
Lady Lucas began directly to calculate, with more interest than the matter had ever excited before, how many years longer Mr. Bennet was likely to live; and Sir William gave it as his decided opinion, that whenever Mr. Collins should be in possession of the Longbourn estate, it would be highly expedient that both he and his wife should make their appearance at St. James's.
But I tell you, Miss Lizzy--if you take it into your head to go on refusing every offer of marriage in this way, you will never get a husband at all--and I am sure I do not know who is to maintain you when your father is dead.
I had hoped that our sentiments coincided in every particular, but I must so far differ from you as to think our two youngest daughters uncommonly foolish."
I am sincerely grieved for him and Mrs. F., but no one can throw any blame on them.
Both changed colour, one looked white, the other red.
Her impatience for this second letter was as well rewarded as impatience generally is.
She has the reputation of being remarkably sensible and clever; but I rather believe she derives part of her abilities from her rank and fortune, part from her authoritative manner, and the rest from the pride for her nephew, who chooses that everyone connected with him should have an understanding of the first class."
Pride relates more to our opinion of ourselves, vanity to what we would have others think of us."
"I often think," said she, "that there is nothing so bad as parting with one's friends.
But, my dearest Jane, you cannot seriously imagine that because Miss Bingley tells you her brother greatly admires Miss Darcy, he is in the smallest degree less sensible of _your_ merit than when he took leave of you on Tuesday, or that it will be in her power to persuade him that, instead of being in love with you, he is very much in love with her friend."
Mr. Bennet had very often wished before this period of his life that, instead of spending his whole income, he had laid by an annual sum for the better provision of his children, and of his wife, if she survived him.
Almost as soon as I entered the house, I singled you out as the companion of my future life.
They had nothing to accuse him of but pride; pride he probably had, and if not, it would certainly be imputed by the inhabitants of a small market-town where the family did not visit.
It is only that he has better means of having it than many others, because he is rich, and many others are poor.
"Oh!"
"Yes, my youngest is not sixteen.
It is wonderful how many families I have been the means of supplying in that way.
The others have been gone on to Scarborough, these three weeks."
Are you going much farther?"
But wishes were vain, or at least could only serve to amuse her in the hurry and confusion of the following hour.
"It must have been his sister's doing.
"The garden in which stands my humble abode is separated only by a lane from Rosings Park, her ladyship's residence."
At length, however, the remarks of her companions on her absence of mind aroused her, and she felt the necessity of appearing more like herself.
Her curiosity, however, was unexpectedly relieved.
My mother was in hysterics, and though I endeavoured to give her every assistance in my power, I am afraid I did not do so much as I might have done!
"Aye, there she comes," continued Mrs. Bennet, "looking as unconcerned as may be, and caring no more for us than if we were at York, provided she can have her own way.
It pains me to offend you.
"It is fortunate, then, that they fall to my lot instead of yours."
Kitty owned that she had rather stay at home.
The invitation was accepted of course, and at a proper hour they joined the party in Lady Catherine's drawing-room.
"We will go as far as Meryton with you," said Catherine and Lydia.
Darcy was delighted with their engagement; his friend had given him the earliest information of it.
I was afraid they might not; and we overtook William Goulding in his curricle, so I was determined he should know it, and so I let down the side-glass next to him, and took off my glove, and let my hand just rest upon the window frame, so that he might see the ring, and then I bowed and smiled like anything."
Collins."
How far your nephew might approve of your interference in his affairs, I cannot tell; but you have certainly no right to concern yourself in mine.
Have you heard from my uncle?"
"You write uncommonly fast."
"Oh!
We passed each other several times.
Mrs. Phillips was quite awed by such an excess of good breeding; but her contemplation of one stranger was soon put to an end by exclamations and inquiries about the other; of whom, however, she could only tell her nieces what they already knew, that Mr. Denny had brought him from London, and that he was to have a lieutenant's commission in the ----shire.
I hardly know how Mr. Collins was first introduced to her notice, but he certainly has not known her long."
"Good gracious!
She dreaded lest the chambermaid had been mistaken.
and so did Mrs. Forster.
In the former were many good paintings; but Elizabeth knew nothing of the art; and from such as had been already visible below, she had willingly turned to look at some drawings of Miss Darcy's, in crayons, whose subjects were usually more interesting, and also more intelligible.
Her ladyship's carriage is regularly ordered for us.
Mrs. Bennet assured her that they never sat there after dinner, and then added:  "May I take the liberty of asking your ladyship whether you left Mr. and Mrs. Collins well."
Oh, no, no--this is not likely.
"No," said Darcy, "I have made no such pretension.
He could even listen to Sir William Lucas, when he complimented him on carrying away the brightest jewel of the country, and expressed his hopes of their all meeting frequently at St. James's, with very decent composure.
"Do you not want to know who has taken it?"
"I certainly have not the talent which some people possess," said Darcy, "of conversing easily with those I have never seen before.
"But, my dear, you must indeed go and see Mr. Bingley when he comes into the neighbourhood."
My dear Jane, I am in such a flutter, that I am sure I can't write; so I will dictate, and you write for me.
Vanity and pride are different things, though the words are often used synonymously.
"That is not very likely; our authority was too good."
"My dear sir," replied Mr. Collins, "I am particularly obliged to you for this friendly caution, and you may depend upon my not taking so material a step without her ladyship's concurrence."
The former was divided between admiration of the brilliancy which exercise had given to her complexion, and doubt as to the occasion's justifying her coming so far alone.
It was more than civil; it was really attentive; and there was no necessity for such attention.
She is not such a simpleton.
I, who have valued myself on my abilities!
Ever since I have known it, I have been most anxious to acknowledge to you how gratefully I feel it.
I cannot boast of knowing more than half-a-dozen, in the whole range of my acquaintance, that are really accomplished."
"I believe I have now told you every thing.
As she had heard no carriage, she thought it not unlikely to be Lady Catherine, and under that apprehension was putting away her half-finished letter that she might escape all impertinent questions, when the door opened, and, to her very great surprise, Mr. Darcy, and Mr. Darcy only, entered the room.
"I wonder my aunt did not tell us of _that_."
He listened to her with perfect indifference while she chose to entertain herself in this manner; and as his composure convinced her that all was safe, her wit flowed long.
I knew that Mr. Wickham ought not to be a clergyman; the business was therefore soon settled--he resigned all claim to assistance in the church, were it possible that he could ever be in a situation to receive it, and accepted in return three thousand pounds.
He had, to be sure, done much.
"They met again on Sunday, and then _I_ saw him too.
--My mind, however, is now made up on the subject, for having received ordination at Easter, I have been so fortunate as to be distinguished by the patronage of the Right Honourable Lady Catherine de Bourgh, widow of Sir Lewis de Bourgh, whose bounty and beneficence has preferred me to the valuable rectory of this parish, where it shall be my earnest endeavour to demean myself with grateful respect towards her ladyship, and be ever ready to perform those rites and ceremonies which are instituted by the Church of England.
His attentions to Miss King were now the consequence of views solely and hatefully mercenary; and the mediocrity of her fortune proved no longer the moderation of his wishes, but his eagerness to grasp at anything.
Mrs. Bennet could hardly comprehend it.
"I wish it may."
This cannot be!
"You are a good girl;" he replied, "and I have great pleasure in thinking you will be so happily settled.
It would have suited me in every respect."
She will be married at sixteen!
There is no danger of Wickham's marrying Mary King.
And tell my dear Lydia not to give any directions about her clothes till she has seen me, for she does not know which are the best warehouses.
"Upon my word!
I was sure you loved your girls too well to neglect such an acquaintance.
They had now entered a beautiful walk by the side of the water, and every step was bringing forward a nobler fall of ground, or a finer reach of the woods to which they were approaching; but it was some time before Elizabeth was sensible of any of it; and, though she answered mechanically to the repeated appeals of her uncle and aunt, and seemed to direct her eyes to such objects as they pointed out, she distinguished no part of the scene.
"Why will you think so?
Is this to be endured!
Never, since reading Jane's second letter, had she entertained a hope of Wickham's meaning to marry her.
She held out her hand; he kissed it with affectionate gallantry, though he hardly knew how to look, and they entered the house.
"Let me write for you," said Jane, "if you dislike the trouble yourself."
As they walked home, Elizabeth related to Jane what she had seen pass between the two gentlemen; but though Jane would have defended either or both, had they appeared to be in the wrong, she could no more explain such behaviour than her sister.
my dear," cried his wife, "I cannot bear to hear that mentioned.
Well, much good may it do them!
"Perhaps we might be deceived."
I dare say he often hears worse things said than I am going to say.
"If I have, I shall be the last person to confess it."
But in what proportions it should be divided amongst the latter depended on the will of the parents.
But how little of permanent happiness could belong to a couple who were only brought together because their passions were stronger than their virtue, she could easily conjecture.
"Yes--but as it happens, they are all of them very clever."
She answered with equal indifference and brevity, and the other said no more.
Your uncle is as much surprised as I am--and nothing but the belief of your being a party concerned would have allowed him to act as he has done.
But in all, and in almost every line of each, there was a want of that cheerfulness which had been used to characterise her style, and which, proceeding from the serenity of a mind at ease with itself and kindly disposed towards everyone, had been scarcely ever clouded.
It is a pity they are not handsome!
Conceal the unhappy truth as long as it is possible, I know it cannot be long."
You have delighted us long enough.
He merely added that he should not write again till he had something of importance to mention."
But," she continued, recollecting herself, "as we know none of the particulars, it is not fair to condemn him.
"Will you give me leave to defer your raptures till I write again?
Elizabeth was shocked to think that, however incapable of such coarseness of _expression_ herself, the coarseness of the _sentiment_ was little other than her own breast had harboured and fancied liberal!
And pray, Lizzy, what said Lady Catherine about this report?
In the first place, he must make such an agreement for tithes as may be beneficial to himself and not offensive to his patron.
Elizabeth, who knew this to be levelled at Mr. Darcy, was in such misery of shame, that she could hardly keep her seat.
In comparing her recollection of Pemberley with the minute description which Wickham could give, and in bestowing her tribute of praise on the character of its late possessor, she was delighting both him and herself.
"We will not quarrel for the greater share of blame annexed to that evening," said Elizabeth.
"_You_ began the evening well, Charlotte," said Mrs. Bennet with civil self-command to Miss Lucas.
Poor Charlotte!
But, to be sure, the good lady who showed us his house did give him a most flaming character!
How can they suit each other?
Mr. Collins, to be sure, was neither sensible nor agreeable; his society was irksome, and his attachment to her must be imaginary.
the story which followed, of his designs on Miss Darcy, received some confirmation from what had passed between Colonel Fitzwilliam and herself only the morning before; and at last she was referred for the truth of every particular to Colonel Fitzwilliam himself--from whom she had previously received the information of his near concern in all his cousin's affairs, and whose character she had no reason to question.
Lydia has no brothers to step forward; and he might imagine, from my father's behaviour, from his indolence and the little attention he has ever seemed to give to what was going forward in his family, that _he_ would do as little, and think as little about it, as any father could do, in such a matter."
I knew it to be a most respectable, agreeable corps, and my friend Denny tempted me further by his account of their present quarters, and the very great attentions and excellent acquaintances Meryton had procured them.
such an openness and gentleness in his manner!"
Can his most intimate friends be so excessively deceived in him?
Elizabeth could not but be pleased, could not but triumph.
said he, taking the letter from his pocket.
If, in the explanation of them, which is due to myself, I am under the necessity of relating feelings which may be offensive to yours, I can only say that I am sorry.
She endeavoured to secure Jane in her interest; but Jane, with all possible mildness, declined interfering; and Elizabeth, sometimes with real earnestness, and sometimes with playful gaiety, replied to her attacks.
Her fellow-travellers the next day were not of a kind to make her think him less agreeable.
Bingley was quite uncomfortable; his sisters declared that they were miserable.
As for Elizabeth, her thoughts were at Pemberley this evening more than the last; and the evening, though as it passed it seemed long, was not long enough to determine her feelings towards _one_ in that mansion; and she lay awake two whole hours endeavouring to make them out.
It was all over before I arrived; so my curiosity was not so dreadfully racked as _yours_ seems to have been.
I shall see her in January.
To be sure, it would have been more for the advantage of conversation had Miss Lydia Bennet come upon the town; or, as the happiest alternative, been secluded from the world, in some distant farmhouse.
Mr. Bennet, in equal silence, was enjoying the scene.
When a woman has five grown-up daughters, she ought to give over thinking of her own beauty."
The wisest and the best of men--nay, the wisest and best of their actions--may be rendered ridiculous by a person whose first object in life is a joke."
"I am thinking of what you have been telling me," said she.
The park paling was still the boundary on one side, and she soon passed one of the gates into the ground.
"If I should ever go to Brighton, I would behave better than Lydia."
Mr. Gardiner had waited only for the letters before he set off.
"I never heard that it was."
Of this she was perfectly unaware; to her he was only the man who made himself agreeable nowhere, and who had not thought her handsome enough to dance with.
"What, none of you?"
said she.
But I dare not hope it.
They will ruin your happiness.
and so she asked the two Harringtons to come, but Harriet was ill, and so Pen was forced to come by herself; and then, what do you think we did?
But what does he say of the living?"
Mr. Collins had a compliment, and an allusion to throw in here, which were kindly smiled on by the mother and daughter.
cried Elizabeth.
He began to wish to know more of her, and as a step towards conversing with her himself, attended to her conversation with others.
I should be ashamed of having one that was only entailed on me."
Four weeks were to pass away before her uncle and aunt's arrival.
"We will not quarrel for the greater share of blame annexed to that evening," said Elizabeth.
All expectation from the brother was now absolutely over.
"I am sure," she added, "if it was not for such good friends I do not know what would become of her, for she is very ill indeed, and suffers a vast deal, though with the greatest patience in the world, which is always the way with her, for she has, without exception, the sweetest temper I have ever met with.
It would look odd to be entirely silent for half an hour together; and yet for the advantage of _some_, conversation ought to be so arranged, as that they may have the trouble of saying as little as possible."
The rector of a parish has much to do.
Elizabeth felt herself growing more angry every moment; yet she tried to the utmost to speak with composure when she said:  "You are mistaken, Mr. Darcy, if you suppose that the mode of your declaration affected me in any other way, than as it spared me the concern which I might have felt in refusing you, had you behaved in a more gentlemanlike manner."
It was necessary to make this circumstance a matter of pleasure, because on such occasions it is the etiquette; but no one was less likely than Mrs. Bennet to find comfort in staying home at any period of her life.
At that moment, Sir William Lucas appeared close to them, meaning to pass through the set to the other side of the room; but on perceiving Mr. Darcy, he stopped with a bow of superior courtesy to compliment him on his dancing and his partner.
He then sat down by her, and talked scarcely to anyone else.
Could you expect me to rejoice in the inferiority of your connections?--to congratulate myself on the hope of relations, whose condition in life is so decidedly beneath my own?"
Most earnestly did she then entreaty him to lose no more time before he wrote.
"Take care, Lizzy; that speech savours strongly of disappointment."
But as it is, you must not let your fancy run away with you.
"Ten thousand pounds!
"I had not been long in Hertfordshire, before I saw, in common with others, that Bingley preferred your elder sister to any other young woman in the country.
I shall be back by dinner."
"Can I have the carriage?"
Their parties abroad were less varied than before, and at home she had a mother and sister whose constant repinings at the dullness of everything around them threw a real gloom over their domestic circle; and, though Kitty might in time regain her natural degree of sense, since the disturbers of her brain were removed, her other sister, from whose disposition greater evil might be apprehended, was likely to be hardened in all her folly and assurance by a situation of such double danger as a watering-place and a camp.
I have not been used to submit to any person's whims.
He then asked her to walk into the house--but she declared herself not tired, and they stood together on the lawn.
"They are going to be encamped near Brighton; and I do so want papa to take us all there for the summer!
Every kind of pride must revolt from the connection.
And her neighbours at Lucas Lodge, therefore (for through their communication with the Collinses, the report, she concluded, had reached Lady Catherine), had only set that down as almost certain and immediate, which she had looked forward to as possible at some future time.
The picture-gallery, and two or three of the principal bedrooms, were all that remained to be shown.
The letter which she wrote on this occasion to her sister will prove what she felt.
It was very little less.
The world is blinded by his fortune and consequence, or frightened by his high and imposing manners, and sees him only as he chooses to be seen."
The advice was followed readily, for the feverish symptoms increased, and her head ached acutely.
"I will not trust myself on the subject," replied Wickham; "I can hardly be just to him."
And when the party entered the assembly room it consisted of only five altogether--Mr. Bingley, his two sisters, the husband of the eldest, and another young man.
"Probably not; but Mr. Darcy can please where he chooses.
She seldom listened to anybody for more than half a minute, and never attended to Mary at all.
"But if he does it any more I shall certainly let him know that I see what he is about.
With a glance, she saw that he had lost none of his recent civility; and, to imitate his politeness, she began, as they met, to admire the beauty of the place; but she had not got beyond the words "delightful," and "charming," when some unlucky recollections obtruded, and she fancied that praise of Pemberley from her might be mischievously construed.
Convinced as Elizabeth now was that Miss Bingley's dislike of her had originated in jealousy, she could not help feeling how unwelcome her appearance at Pemberley must be to her, and was curious to know with how much civility on that lady's side the acquaintance would now be renewed.
Our instrument is a capital one, probably superior to----You shall try it some day.
Kitty stared at him, and Lydia exclaimed.
"Yet it is hard," she sometimes thought, "that this poor man cannot come to a house which he has legally hired, without raising all this speculation!
Very nonsensical to come at all!
I told Mrs. Collins so before you came.
I cannot understand it.
"What is it you mean?"
"Lady Catherine, I have nothing further to say.
"Perhaps we might be deceived."
"My real purpose was to see _you_, and to judge, if I could, whether I might ever hope to make you love me.
Mrs. Bennet, all amazement, though flattered by having a guest of such high importance, received her with the utmost politeness.
And there was my aunt, all the time I was dressing, preaching and talking away just as if she was reading a sermon.
Her dirty petticoat quite escaped my notice."
"Thank you," said Lydia, "for if you did, I should certainly tell you all, and then Wickham would be angry."
But, however, he is very welcome to come to Netherfield, if he likes it.
"No, no.
Let her go, then.
The expression of his face changed gradually from indignant contempt to a composed and steady gravity.
When Lady Catherine and her daughter had played as long as they chose, the tables were broken up, the carriage was offered to Mrs. Collins, gratefully accepted and immediately ordered.
He never said a great deal, nor did she give herself the trouble of talking or of listening much; but it struck her in the course of their third rencontre that he was asking some odd unconnected questions--about her pleasure in being at Hunsford, her love of solitary walks, and her opinion of Mr. and Mrs. Collins's happiness; and that in speaking of Rosings and her not perfectly understanding the house, he seemed to expect that whenever she came into Kent again she would be staying _there_ too.
"I often think," said she, "that there is nothing so bad as parting with one's friends.
He assured her, that as to dancing, he was perfectly indifferent to it; that his chief object was by delicate attentions to recommend himself to her and that he should therefore make a point of remaining close to her the whole evening.
"Colonel Forster did own that he had often suspected some partiality, especially on Lydia's side, but nothing to give him any alarm.
Elizabeth here felt herself called on to say something in vindication of his behaviour to Wickham; and therefore gave them to understand, in as guarded a manner as she could, that by what she had heard from his relations in Kent, his actions were capable of a very different construction; and that his character was by no means so faulty, nor Wickham's so amiable, as they had been considered in Hertfordshire.
Their fortune on both sides is splendid.
His ease and cheerfulness rendered him a most agreeable addition to their evening party; and he bore with the ill-judged officiousness of the mother, and heard all her silly remarks with a forbearance and command of countenance particularly grateful to the daughter.
Her feelings as she read were scarcely to be defined.
How little did you tell me of what passed at Pemberley and Lambton!
It must be an amusing study."
Elizabeth's impatience to acquaint Jane with what had happened could no longer be overcome; and at length, resolving to suppress every particular in which her sister was concerned, and preparing her to be surprised, she related to her the next morning the chief of the scene between Mr. Darcy and herself.
Mr. Collins was not a sensible man, and the deficiency of nature had been but little assisted by education or society; the greatest part of his life having been spent under the guidance of an illiterate and miserly father; and though he belonged to one of the universities, he had merely kept the necessary terms, without forming at it any useful acquaintance.
By Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley they were noticed only by a curtsey; and, on their being seated, a pause, awkward as such pauses must always be, succeeded for a few moments.
Their affectionate mother shared all their grief; she remembered what she had herself endured on a similar occasion, five-and-twenty years ago.
He began to wish to know more of her, and as a step towards conversing with her himself, attended to her conversation with others.
In the hall they parted.
She wrote even to Jane on the occasion, to express her delight, and repeat all her former professions of regard.
Do you not know that such a report is spread abroad?"
They saw him often, and to his other recommendations was now added that of general unreserve.
And what claims has Lydia--what attraction has she beyond youth, health, and good humour that could make him, for her sake, forego every chance of benefiting himself by marrying well?
He only meant that there was not such a variety of people to be met with in the country as in the town, which you must acknowledge to be true."
Mr. Collins on his return highly gratified Mrs. Bennet by admiring Mrs. Phillips's manners and politeness.
Your superior knowledge of your sister must make the latter probable.
A report of a most alarming nature reached me two days ago.
His behaviour was attentive and kind to the utmost.
"My dear, dear Lydia!"
Give me further particulars.
They all exclaimed against such terrific ideas; and Mr. Gardiner, after general assurances of his affection for her and all her family, told her that he meant to be in London the very next day, and would assist Mr. Bennet in every endeavour for recovering Lydia.
A deeper shade of _hauteur_ overspread his features, but he said not a word, and Elizabeth, though blaming herself for her own weakness, could not go on.
He began to wish to know more of her, and as a step towards conversing with her himself, attended to her conversation with others.
They could not be untouched by his politeness; and had they drawn his character from their own feelings and his servant's report, without any reference to any other account, the circle in Hertfordshire to which he was known would not have recognized it for Mr. Darcy.
She looked at Jane, and smiled and shook her head by turns.
To Pemberley, therefore, they were to go.
It is something to think of, and it gives her a sort of distinction among her companions.
The farewell between herself and Mr. Wickham was perfectly friendly; on his side even more.
Why should they not go on to Scotland if that had been the case?"
Do not let us quarrel about the past.
"I am sure I shall break _mine_," said Lydia.
In making me the offer, you must have satisfied the delicacy of your feelings with regard to my family, and may take possession of Longbourn estate whenever it falls, without any self-reproach.
He was at the same time haughty, reserved, and fastidious, and his manners, though well-bred, were not inviting.
And this consideration leads me moreover to reflect, with augmented satisfaction, on a certain event of last November; for had it been otherwise, I must have been involved in all your sorrow and disgrace.
They crossed it by a simple bridge, in character with the general air of the scene; it was a spot less adorned than any they had yet visited; and the valley, here contracted into a glen, allowed room only for the stream, and a narrow walk amidst the rough coppice-wood which bordered it.
I am sure Wickham would like a place at court very much, and I do not think we shall have quite money enough to live upon without some help.
Mr. Bennet and his daughters saw all the advantages of Wickham's removal from the ----shire as clearly as Mr. Gardiner could do.
And so, is it quite certain he is coming?"
A house in town!
The marriage of a daughter, which had been the first object of her wishes since Jane was sixteen, was now on the point of accomplishment, and her thoughts and her words ran wholly on those attendants of elegant nuptials, fine muslins, new carriages, and servants.
He had entertained hopes of being admitted to a sight of the young ladies, of whose beauty he had heard much; but he saw only the father.
Mr. Darcy, with grave propriety, requested to be allowed the honour of her hand, but in vain.
"You know of course that Lady Catherine de Bourgh and Lady Anne Darcy were sisters; consequently that she is aunt to the present Mr.
I hate such false friends.
The next day opened a new scene at Longbourn.
"My dear madam," replied he, "let us be for ever silent on this point.
Lydia was exceedingly fond of him.
"Miss Bennet, do you know who I am?
"If I can but see one of my daughters happily settled at Netherfield," said Mrs. Bennet to her husband, "and all the others equally well married, I shall have nothing to wish for."
I declare after all there is no enjoyment like reading!
But, Lizzy, you can tell us whether it is like or not."
Miss Lucas perceived him from an upper window as he walked towards the house, and instantly set out to meet him accidentally in the lane.
This match, to which you have the presumption to aspire, can never take place.
Colonel Forster is a sensible man, and will keep her out of any real mischief; and she is luckily too poor to be an object of prey to anybody.
There is but such a quantity of merit between them; just enough to make one good sort of man; and of late it has been shifting about pretty much.
Observing his second daughter employed in trimming a hat, he suddenly addressed her with:  "I hope Mr. Bingley will like it, Lizzy."
Is there one among the sex, who would not protest against such a weakness as a second proposal to the same woman?
Bingley was endeared to Darcy by the easiness, openness, and ductility of his temper, though no disposition could offer a greater contrast to his own, and though with his own he never appeared dissatisfied.
In the gallery there were many family portraits, but they could have little to fix the attention of a stranger.
hang Kitty!
I expected you to stay two months.
What did Colonel Forster say?
In the absence of Jane, he always attached himself to Elizabeth, for the pleasure of talking of her; and when Bingley was gone, Jane constantly sought the same means of relief.
"And what is your success?"
No, Lizzy, let me once in my life feel how much I have been to blame.
He has heartily forgiven me now."
Lizzy, my dear, run down to your father, and ask him how much he will give her.
Her ladyship seemed pleased with the idea; and you may imagine that I am happy on every occasion to offer those little delicate compliments which are always acceptable to ladies.
"I have not a doubt of Mr. Bingley's sincerity," said Elizabeth warmly; "but you must excuse my not being convinced by assurances only.
"They are generally long; but whether always charming it is not for me to determine."
It is not that I do not believe _my_ fingers as capable as any other woman's of superior execution."
My father and mother believe the worst, but I cannot think so ill of him.
You thought the waiter must not hear, as if he cared!
But there was much to be talked of in marrying her; and the good-natured wishes for her well-doing which had proceeded before from all the spiteful old ladies in Meryton lost but a little of their spirit in this change of circumstances, because with such an husband her misery was considered certain.
Are you going much farther?"
At such an assembly as this it would be insupportable.
It has connected him nearer with virtue than with any other feeling.
My sisters may write to _me_.
I flatter myself at least that you will be able to do so.
And what sort of table do they keep?
It would have spared her from explanations and professions which it was exceedingly awkward to give; but they were now necessary, and she assured him, with some confusion, of her attachment to Mr. Darcy.
She will make him a very proper wife."
"How despicably I have acted!"
"The party seemed so well selected, so suitable one with the other.
Are not you curious to hear how it was managed?"
It is very hard to think that she might have been Mr. Collins's wife by this time, had it not been for her own perverseness.
He must know that she was as amiable and unpretending as we have found her."
He shook his head.
His wife represented to him how absolutely necessary such an attention would be from all the neighbouring gentlemen, on his returning to Netherfield.
But here, by carrying with me one ceaseless source of regret in my sister's absence, I may reasonably hope to have all my expectations of pleasure realised.
Miss Darcy, on her brother's entrance, exerted herself much more to talk, and Elizabeth saw that he was anxious for his sister and herself to get acquainted, and forwarded as much as possible, every attempt at conversation on either side.
"That it ought not to be attempted.
Proud that in a cause of compassion and honour, he had been able to get the better of himself.
As long as she stays there, it is all very well.
What a contrast between him and his friend!
"But there seems an indelicacy in directing his attentions towards her so soon after this event."
But when she read and re-read with the closest attention, the particulars immediately following of Wickham's resigning all pretensions to the living, of his receiving in lieu so considerable a sum as three thousand pounds, again was she forced to hesitate.
It was, on the contrary, exactly calculated to make her understand her own wishes; and never had she so honestly felt that she could have loved him, as now, when all love must be vain.
It was reasonable that he should feel he had been wrong; he had liberality, and he had the means of exercising it; and though she would not place herself as his principal inducement, she could, perhaps, believe that remaining partiality for her might assist his endeavours in a cause where her peace of mind must be materially concerned.
Mr. Darcy has not authorised me to make his communication public.
It was very little less.
But I believe I must date it from my first seeing his beautiful grounds at Pemberley."
Believe her to be deceived, by all means.
I shall tell Colonel Forster it will be quite a shame if he does not."
She was now, on being settled at home, at leisure to observe the real state of her sister's spirits.
The boy protested that she should not; she continued to declare that she would, and the argument ended only with the visit.
Elizabeth was so much caught with what passed, as to leave her very little attention for her book; and soon laying it wholly aside, she drew near the card-table, and stationed herself between Mr. Bingley and his eldest sister, to observe the game.
He had rather hoped that his wife's views on the stranger would be disappointed; but he soon found out that he had a different story to hear.
Pleased with the preference of one, and offended by the neglect of the other, on the very beginning of our acquaintance, I have courted prepossession and ignorance, and driven reason away, where either were concerned.
She would not give him time to reply, but hurrying instantly to her husband, called out as she entered the library, "Oh!
"I have no right to give _my_ opinion," said Wickham, "as to his being agreeable or otherwise.
Mrs. Gardiner, who was walking arm-in-arm with Elizabeth, gave her a look expressive of wonder.
For God's sake, say no more of his partners.
The horses were post; and neither the carriage, nor the livery of the servant who preceded it, were familiar to them.
The discomposure of spirits which this extraordinary visit threw Elizabeth into, could not be easily overcome; nor could she, for many hours, learn to think of it less than incessantly.
Is there one among the sex, who would not protest against such a weakness as a second proposal to the same woman?
Elizabeth was forced to give into a little falsehood here; for to acknowledge the substance of their conversation was impossible.
He then handed her in, Maria followed, and the door was on the point of being closed, when he suddenly reminded them, with some consternation, that they had hitherto forgotten to leave any message for the ladies at Rosings.
Very well.
She looked at Jane, to see how she bore it; but Jane was very composedly talking to Bingley.
Having resolved to do it without loss of time, as his leave of absence extended only to the following Saturday, and having no feelings of diffidence to make it distressing to himself even at the moment, he set about it in a very orderly manner, with all the observances, which he supposed a regular part of the business.
But when they see, as I trust they will, that their brother is happy with me, they will learn to be contented, and we shall be on good terms again; though we can never be what we once were to each other."
The boy protested that she should not; she continued to declare that she would, and the argument ended only with the visit.
"You are quite right.
So much in love as to wish to marry her in spite of all the objections which had made him prevent his friend's marrying her sister, and which must appear at least with equal force in his own case--was almost incredible!
Reflection must be reserved for solitary hours; whenever she was alone, she gave way to it as the greatest relief; and not a day went by without a solitary walk, in which she might indulge in all the delight of unpleasant recollections.
In this manner Lady Catherine talked on, till they were at the door of the carriage, when, turning hastily round, she added, "I take no leave of you, Miss Bennet.
"He is certainly a good brother," said Elizabeth, as she walked towards one of the windows.
She studied every sentence; and her feelings towards its writer were at times widely different.
Its banks were neither formal nor falsely adorned.
My father was not only fond of this young man's society, whose manners were always engaging; he had also the highest opinion of him, and hoping the church would be his profession, intended to provide for him in it.
They all paint tables, cover screens, and net purses.
Mrs. Bennet invited him to dine with them; but, with many expressions of concern, he confessed himself engaged elsewhere.
"I understood that there were some very strong objections against the lady."
"My dear Mr. Bennet, you must not expect such girls to have the sense of their father and mother.
"True; and nobody can ever be introduced in a ball-room.
It is really too great a violation of decency, honour, and interest, for him to be guilty of.
He has heartily forgiven me now."
; and if she would give him leave, would take an early opportunity of waiting on them.
My poor father!
But Mr. Gardiner could not be seen, and Mr. Darcy found, on further inquiry, that your father was still with him, but would quit town the next morning.
At that ball, while I had the honour of dancing with you, I was first made acquainted, by Sir William Lucas's accidental information, that Bingley's attentions to your sister had given rise to a general expectation of their marriage.
I have not been in the habit of brooking disappointment."
You never see a fault in anybody.
Mrs. Bennet could hardly comprehend it.
But the fact is, that being, as I am, to inherit this estate after the death of your honoured father (who, however, may live many years longer), I could not satisfy myself without resolving to choose a wife from among his daughters, that the loss to them might be as little as possible, when the melancholy event takes place--which, however, as I have already said, may not be for several years.
I know of nobody that is coming, I am sure, unless Charlotte Lucas should happen to call in--and I hope _my_ dinners are good enough for her.
Society has claims on us all; and I profess myself one of those who consider intervals of recreation and amusement as desirable for everybody."
But if you will listen to his letter, you may perhaps be a little softened by his manner of expressing himself."
Could he expect to be noticed again by the regiment, after such an affront to Colonel Forster?
I will write to my sister Gardiner about them directly.
Elizabeth found that nothing was beneath this great lady's attention, which could furnish her with an occasion of dictating to others.
She was sure they should be married some time or other, and it did not much signify when.
Lizzy declares she will not have Mr. Collins, and Mr. Collins begins to say that he will not have Lizzy."
She knew how little such a situation would give pleasure to either, or make either appear to advantage.
you have had every care and anxiety upon yourself alone."
It was necessary to laugh, when she would rather have cried.
"Yes, very indifferent indeed," said Elizabeth, laughingly.
Come be quick, be quick!
On this point she was soon satisfied; and two or three little circumstances occurred ere they parted, which, in her anxious interpretation, denoted a recollection of Jane not untinctured by tenderness, and a wish of saying more that might lead to the mention of her, had he dared.
The younger ones out before the elder ones are married!
When Mr. Bennet wrote again to his brother, therefore, he sent his permission for them to come; and it was settled, that as soon as the ceremony was over, they should proceed to Longbourn.
cried Elizabeth, darting from her seat as she finished the letter, in eagerness to follow him, without losing a moment of the time so precious; but as she reached the door it was opened by a servant, and Mr. Darcy appeared.
There is a mixture of servility and self-importance in his letter, which promises well.
Her cousin prefaced his speech with a solemn bow and though she could not hear a word of it, she felt as if hearing it all, and saw in the motion of his lips the words "apology," "Hunsford," and "Lady Catherine de Bourgh."
cried Mrs. Gardiner, whose curiosity as to the mode of her intelligence was all alive.
"And of this place," thought she, "I might have been mistress!
"_You_ observed it, Mr. Darcy, I am sure," said Miss Bingley; "and I am inclined to think that you would not wish to see _your_ sister make such an exhibition."
Mary's powers were by no means fitted for such a display; her voice was weak, and her manner affected.
About ten or a dozen years ago, before her marriage, she had spent a considerable time in that very part of Derbyshire to which he belonged.
His circumstances, he assured me, and I had no difficulty in believing it, were exceedingly bad.
It was a handsome modern building, well situated on rising ground.
This matter may be considered, therefore, as finally settled."
When have you been prevented by want of money from going wherever you chose, or procuring anything you had a fancy for?"
I never meant to deceive you, but my spirits might often lead me wrong.
"Are you not diverted?"
In a few minutes, Mrs. Bennet half-opened the door and called out:  "Lizzy, my dear, I want to speak with you."
Compliments always take _you_ by surprise, and _me_ never.
Jane went to him instantly, kissed him, and thanked him for his goodness.
If I can perceive her regard for him, he must be a simpleton, indeed, not to discover it too."
They lagged behind, while Elizabeth, Kitty, and Darcy were to entertain each other.
Elizabeth had never been more at a loss to make her feelings appear what they were not.
There is nothing he would not do for her."
"I have already told her so once, by your desire."
Had Colonel Forster seen Denny himself?"
"Pray, my dear aunt, what is the difference in matrimonial affairs, between the mercenary and the prudent motive?
Their table was superlatively stupid.
Elizabeth disdained the appearance of noticing this civil reflection, but its meaning did not escape, nor was it likely to conciliate her.
Her ladyship seemed pleased with the idea; and you may imagine that I am happy on every occasion to offer those little delicate compliments which are always acceptable to ladies.
Elizabeth was disgusted, and even Miss Bennet was shocked.
I cannot do justice to his kindness.
Allow me to say, Lady Catherine, that the arguments with which you have supported this extraordinary application have been as frivolous as the application was ill-judged.
You supposed more than really existed.
Mrs. Bennet had no turn for economy, and her husband's love of independence had alone prevented their exceeding their income.
Their manner of living, even when the restoration of peace dismissed them to a home, was unsettled in the extreme.
We have certainly done our best; and most fortunately having it in our power to introduce you to very superior society, and, from our connection with Rosings, the frequent means of varying the humble home scene, I think we may flatter ourselves that your Hunsford visit cannot have been entirely irksome.
He only meant that there was not such a variety of people to be met with in the country as in the town, which you must acknowledge to be true."
She was received, however, very politely by them; and in their brother's manners there was something better than politeness; there was good humour and kindness.
She could only imagine, however, at last that she drew his notice because there was something more wrong and reprehensible, according to his ideas of right, than in any other person present.
Any place would do, of about three or four hundred a year; but however, do not speak to Mr. Darcy about it, if you had rather not.
My dearest Lizzy, do but consider in what a disgraceful light it places Mr. Darcy, to be treating his father's favourite in such a manner, one whom his father had promised to provide for.
Have a little compassion on my nerves.
Miss Bingley said something of his never returning to Netherfield again, of giving up the house, but not with any certainty.
Did you, on reading it, give any credit to its contents?"
"True.
"If it is designedly done, they cannot be justified; but I have no idea of there being so much design in the world as some persons imagine."
Her affections had continually been fluctuating but never without an object.
They were ignorant, idle, and vain.
"Yes, in conjunction with his friend."
It was in The Times and The Courier, I know; though it was not put in as it ought to be.
Every idea that had been brought forward by the housekeeper was favourable to his character, and as she stood before the canvas on which he was represented, and fixed his eyes upon herself, she thought of his regard with a deeper sentiment of gratitude than it had ever raised before; she remembered its warmth, and softened its impropriety of expression.
The faces of both, however, were tolerably calm; and no change was visible in either, except that the loss of her favourite sister, or the anger which she had herself incurred in this business, had given more of fretfulness than usual to the accents of Kitty.
A few weeks, he believed.
But does not Jane correspond with his sister?
Mr. Darcy may perhaps have _heard_ of such a place as Gracechurch Street, but he would hardly think a month's ablution enough to cleanse him from its impurities, were he once to enter it; and depend upon it, Mr. Bingley never stirs without him."
cried Mrs. Gardiner.
And a special licence.
"He only told me what I have now told you."
"This is not to be borne.
_My_ affections and wishes are unchanged, but one word from you will silence me on this subject for ever."
When all of the house that was open to general inspection had been seen, they returned downstairs, and, taking leave of the housekeeper, were consigned over to the gardener, who met them at the hall-door.
First of all, he asked Miss Lucas.
"You forget that I have made no answer.
I am sure my sisters must all envy me.
Well, and so just as the carriage came to the door, my uncle was called away upon business to that horrid man Mr. Stone.
We may compare our different opinions."
His acquaintance with Elizabeth was very trifling."
Brighton, and a whole campful of soldiers, to us, who have been overset already by one poor regiment of militia, and the monthly balls of Meryton!"
Her ease and good spirits increased.
Lydia was a stout, well-grown girl of fifteen, with a fine complexion and good-humoured countenance; a favourite with her mother, whose affection had brought her into public at an early age.
Mr. Gardiner, whose manners were very easy and pleasant, encouraged her communicativeness by his questions and remarks; Mrs. Reynolds, either by pride or attachment, had evidently great pleasure in talking of her master and his sister.
Your portion is unhappily so small that it will in all likelihood undo the effects of your loveliness and amiable qualifications.
"It has been coming on so gradually, that I hardly know when it began.
"Indeed, Jane, you ought to believe me.
We will go round the Park every day.
"We shall often meet, I hope, in Hertfordshire."
"I have not the smallest objection to explaining them," said he, as soon as she allowed him to speak.
"I do not see what right Mr. Darcy had to decide on the propriety of his friend's inclination, or why, upon his own judgement alone, he was to determine and direct in what manner his friend was to be happy.
With amazement did she first understand that he believed any apology to be in his power; and steadfastly was she persuaded, that he could have no explanation to give, which a just sense of shame would not conceal.
So imprudent a match on both sides!
"My dear, dear Lizzy, I would--I do congratulate you--but are you certain?
Mrs. Bennet was privileged to whisper it to Mrs. Phillips, and she ventured, without any permission, to do the same by all her neighbours in Meryton.
No sentiment of shame gave a damp to her triumph.
After this period every appearance of acquaintance was dropped.
They have not the same force or rapidity, and do not produce the same expression.
Elizabeth passed the chief of the night in her sister's room, and in the morning had the pleasure of being able to send a tolerable answer to the inquiries which she very early received from Mr. Bingley by a housemaid, and some time afterwards from the two elegant ladies who waited on his sisters.
How could she deny that credit to his assertions in one instance, which she had been obliged to give in the other?
The letter was to this effect:  "MY DEAR LIZZY,  "I wish you joy.
You are determined to ruin him in the opinion of all his friends, and make him the contempt of the world."
"What do you mean, Hill?
He had never had the slightest suspicion.
He had done all this for a girl whom he could neither regard nor esteem.
We all know him to be a proud, unpleasant sort of man; but this would be nothing if you really liked him."
He answered me with the utmost civility, and even paid me the compliment of saying that he was so well convinced of Lady Catherine's discernment as to be certain she could never bestow a favour unworthily.
Pursuing her way along the lane, she then began it.
Good-bye."
Where shall you change horses?
I would advise you merely to put on whatever of your clothes is superior to the rest--there is no occasion for anything more.
my dear Mr. Bennet," as she entered the room, "we have had a most delightful evening, a most excellent ball.
you have had every care and anxiety upon yourself alone."
Conceal the unhappy truth as long as it is possible, I know it cannot be long."
Though Mr. Bennet was not imagined to be very rich, he would have been able to do something for him, and his situation must have been benefited by marriage.
Lady Catherine, Sir William, and Mr. and Mrs. Collins sat down to quadrille; and as Miss de Bourgh chose to play at cassino, the two girls had the honour of assisting Mrs. Jenkinson to make up her party.
"I have been thinking it over again, Elizabeth," said her uncle, as they drove from the town; "and really, upon serious consideration, I am much more inclined than I was to judge as your eldest sister does on the matter.
I hope she will turn out well."
As a child, she was affectionate and pleasing, and extremely fond of me; and I have devoted hours and hours to her amusement.
Into _one_ house in this neighbourhood they shall never have admittance.
She would not give him time to reply, but hurrying instantly to her husband, called out as she entered the library, "Oh!
Mrs. Bennet had no turn for economy, and her husband's love of independence had alone prevented their exceeding their income.
My character has ever been celebrated for its sincerity and frankness, and in a cause of such moment as this, I shall certainly not depart from it.
The possibility of his having endured such unkindness, was enough to interest all her tender feelings; and nothing remained therefore to be done, but to think well of them both, to defend the conduct of each, and throw into the account of accident or mistake whatever could not be otherwise explained.
Everything, however, went on smoothly, and was finally settled according to Charlotte's first sketch.
They travelled as expeditiously as possible, and, sleeping one night on the road, reached Longbourn by dinner time the next day.
Nothing that she could say, however, had any influence.
Elizabeth felt Jane's pleasure.
Be assured, my dear sir, that Mrs. Collins and myself sincerely sympathise with you and all your respectable family, in your present distress, which must be of the bitterest kind, because proceeding from a cause which no time can remove.
She could not help frequently glancing her eye at Mr. Darcy, though every glance convinced her of what she dreaded; for though he was not always looking at her mother, she was convinced that his attention was invariably fixed by her.
I wonder when you _would_ have spoken, if I had not asked you!
She had even condescended to advise him to marry as soon as he could, provided he chose with discretion; and had once paid him a visit in his humble parsonage, where she had perfectly approved all the alterations he had been making, and had even vouchsafed to suggest some herself--some shelves in the closet up stairs."
cried Elizabeth, when she had finished.
This matter may be considered, therefore, as finally settled."
I have faults enough, but they are not, I hope, of understanding.
I declare after all there is no enjoyment like reading!
Elizabeth's spirits were so high on this occasion, that though she did not often speak unnecessarily to Mr. Collins, she could not help asking him whether he intended to accept Mr. Bingley's invitation, and if he did, whether he would think it proper to join in the evening's amusement; and she was rather surprised to find that he entertained no scruple whatever on that head, and was very far from dreading a rebuke either from the Archbishop, or Lady Catherine de Bourgh, by venturing to dance.
"My dear Mr. Bennet," replied his wife, "how can you be so tiresome!
It had not been very great; he had lost every point; but when Mrs. Phillips began to express her concern thereupon, he assured her with much earnest gravity that it was not of the least importance, that he considered the money as a mere trifle, and begged that she would not make herself uneasy.
She perfectly remembered everything that had passed in conversation between Wickham and herself, in their first evening at Mr. Phillips's.
But you would not wish to be dancing when she is ill."  Lydia declared herself satisfied.
Why, he has four or five thousand a year, and very likely more."
"Complied with!
My dear Jane, I am in such a flutter, that I am sure I can't write; so I will dictate, and you write for me.
Elizabeth was chiefly struck by his extraordinary deference for Lady Catherine, and his kind intention of christening, marrying, and burying his parishioners whenever it were required.
The contents of this letter threw Elizabeth into a flutter of spirits, in which it was difficult to determine whether pleasure or pain bore the greatest share.
They followed her into the dining-parlour.
He merely added that he should not write again till he had something of importance to mention."
The town where she had formerly passed some years of her life, and where they were now to spend a few days, was probably as great an object of her curiosity as all the celebrated beauties of Matlock, Chatsworth, Dovedale, or the Peak.
Till the next morning, however, she was not aware of all the felicity of her contrivance.
My sole dependence was on you; and I am sure nobody else will believe me, if you do not.
When you told Mrs. Bennet this morning that if you ever resolved upon quitting Netherfield you should be gone in five minutes, you meant it to be a sort of panegyric, of compliment to yourself--and yet what is there so very laudable in a precipitance which must leave very necessary business undone, and can be of no real advantage to yourself or anyone else?"
All this was acknowledged to Mrs. Gardiner; and after relating the circumstances, she thus went on: "I am now convinced, my dear aunt, that I have never been much in love; for had I really experienced that pure and elevating passion, I should at present detest his very name, and wish him all manner of evil.
"How many letters you must have occasion to write in the course of a year!
Now was the moment for her resolution to be executed, and, while her courage was high, she immediately said:  "Mr. Darcy, I am a very selfish creature; and, for the sake of giving relief to my own feelings, care not how much I may be wounding yours.
Yes, Miss Bennet, interest; for do not expect to be noticed by his family or friends, if you wilfully act against the inclinations of all.
"I should like to know how he behaves among strangers."
You are to understand, Miss Bennet, that I came here with the determined resolution of carrying my purpose; nor will I be dissuaded from it.
The rest of his letter is only about his dear Charlotte's situation, and his expectation of a young olive-branch.
Though Darcy could never receive _him_ at Pemberley, yet, for Elizabeth's sake, he assisted him further in his profession.
For what do we live, but to make sport for our neighbours, and laugh at them in our turn?"
Elizabeth could bear it no longer.
It was not known that Wickham had a single relationship with whom he kept up any connection, and it was certain that he had no near one living.
Elizabeth tried to be diverted by them; but all sense of pleasure was lost in shame.
But we must stem the tide of malice, and pour into the wounded bosoms of each other the balm of sisterly consolation."
But it has been the study of my life to avoid those weaknesses which often expose a strong understanding to ridicule."
GARDINER."
We all know him to be a proud, unpleasant sort of man; but this would be nothing if you really liked him."
She told the story, however, with great spirit among her friends; for she had a lively, playful disposition, which delighted in anything ridiculous.
I will take care of myself, and of Mr. Wickham too.
She could think of nothing more to say; but if he wished to converse with her, he might have better success.
But I will no longer importune my young cousin."
"Indeed I had.
On Saturday morning Elizabeth and Mr. Collins met for breakfast a few minutes before the others appeared; and he took the opportunity of paying the parting civilities which he deemed indispensably necessary.
She would not betray her trust, I suppose, without bribery and corruption, for she really did know where her friend was to be found.
Her pale face and impetuous manner made him start, and before he could recover himself to speak, she, in whose mind every idea was superseded by Lydia's situation, hastily exclaimed, "I beg your pardon, but I must leave you.
"What could become of Mr. Bingley and Jane!"
I am most thankful that the discovery is made in time for me to pay my respects to him, which I am now going to do, and trust he will excuse my not having done it before.
_Too much_, I am afraid; for what becomes of the moral, if our comfort springs from a breach of promise?
Elizabeth, however astonished, was at least more prepared for an interview than before, and resolved to appear and to speak with calmness, if he really intended to meet them.
and turning round he looked for a moment at Elizabeth, till catching her eye, he withdrew his own and coldly said: "She is tolerable, but not handsome enough to tempt _me_; I am in no humour at present to give consequence to young ladies who are slighted by other men.
"How can you be smiling so, Lizzy?"
Anne would have been a delightful performer, had her health allowed her to learn."
You know I have.
"Do not give way to useless alarm," added he; "though it is right to be prepared for the worst, there is no occasion to look on it as certain.
"So much the better.
I am sure he will be vastly happy to oblige you, and will save all the best of the covies for you."
When a woman has five grown-up daughters, she ought to give over thinking of her own beauty."
From what can it proceed?
Mary had heard herself mentioned to Miss Bingley as the most accomplished girl in the neighbourhood; and Catherine and Lydia had been fortunate enough never to be without partners, which was all that they had yet learnt to care for at a ball.
She had been watching him the last hour, she said, as he walked up and down the street, and had Mr. Wickham appeared, Kitty and Lydia would certainly have continued the occupation, but unluckily no one passed windows now except a few of the officers, who, in comparison with the stranger, were become "stupid, disagreeable fellows."
"I will make no promise of the kind."
Its effect was most extraordinary; for on first hearing it, Mrs. Bennet sat quite still, and unable to utter a syllable.
They came.
Jane looked at her doubtingly.
But on the following morning, every hope of this kind was done away.
Elizabeth was pleased; though when she asked herself the reason, she had very little to say in reply.
Why did the Forsters ever let her go out of their sight?
After joining in general lamentations over the dreadful sequel of this event, which Elizabeth considered as all but certain, and Miss Bennet could not assert to be wholly impossible, the former continued the subject, by saying, "But tell me all and everything about it which I have not already heard.
Elizabeth joined them again only to say that her sister was worse, and that she could not leave her.
I beg you will not go.
She was now in an irritation as violent from delight, as she had ever been fidgety from alarm and vexation.
My watchfulness has been effectual; and though I certainly should be a more interesting object to all my acquaintances were I distractedly in love with him, I cannot say that I regret my comparative insignificance.
Mrs. Long said so too, for I asked her whether you did not.
Elizabeth was surprised, however, that Wickham should consent to such a scheme, and had she consulted only her own inclination, any meeting with him would have been the last object of her wishes.
"I do not mind his not talking to Mrs. Long," said Miss Lucas, "but I wish he had danced with Eliza."
It is very unlucky; but as I have actually paid the visit, we cannot escape the acquaintance now."
Mr. Collins must excuse me.
And gravely glancing at Mr. Darcy, "There is a fine old saying, which everybody here is of course familiar with: 'Keep your breath to cool your porridge'; and I shall keep mine to swell my song."
But it ended in nothing, and I will not be sent on a fool's errand again."
I know not what to think.
The carriage was sent to meet them at ----, and they were to return in it by dinner-time.
They are not married, nor can I find there was any intention of being so; but if you are willing to perform the engagements which I have ventured to make on your side, I hope it will not be long before they are.
Elizabeth, for the sake of saying something that might turn her mother's thoughts, now asked her if Charlotte Lucas had been at Longbourn since _her_ coming away.
Elizabeth instantly read her feelings, and at that moment solicitude for Wickham, resentment against his enemies, and everything else, gave way before the hope of Jane's being in the fairest way for happiness.
Elizabeth was pleased; though when she asked herself the reason, she had very little to say in reply.
When he was gone, they were certain at least of receiving constant information of what was going on, and their uncle promised, at parting, to prevail on Mr. Bennet to return to Longbourn, as soon as he could, to the great consolation of his sister, who considered it as the only security for her husband's not being killed in a duel.
Mary had heard herself mentioned to Miss Bingley as the most accomplished girl in the neighbourhood; and Catherine and Lydia had been fortunate enough never to be without partners, which was all that they had yet learnt to care for at a ball.
She then changed the discourse to one more gratifying to each, and on which there could be no difference of sentiment.
"But my father cannot.
Give my love to Colonel Forster.
"I should like it beyond anything!"
Mary, though pretending not to hear, was somewhat disconcerted; and Elizabeth, sorry for her, and sorry for her father's speech, was afraid her anxiety had done no good.
The only pain was in leaving her father, who would certainly miss her, and who, when it came to the point, so little liked her going, that he told her to write to him, and almost promised to answer her letter.
The power of doing anything with quickness is always prized much by the possessor, and often without any attention to the imperfection of the performance.
I am sorry for her, because, with her disposition, she may not get over it immediately.
You need not.
my dear, dear Jane, I am so happy!
She practises very constantly."
She then spoke of the letter, repeating the whole of its contents as far as they concerned George Wickham.
I desire you to stay where you are."
But this idea was soon banished, and her spirits were very differently affected, when, to her utter amazement, she saw Mr. Darcy walk into the room.
And, gathering her work together, she was hastening away, when Elizabeth called out:  "Dear madam, do not go.
Oh!
But will they make you happy?"
"You saw me dance at Meryton, I believe, sir."
"I say no more than the truth, and everybody will say that knows him," replied the other.
Lady Lucas was a very good kind of woman, not too clever to be a valuable neighbour to Mrs. Bennet.
The discomposure of spirits which this extraordinary visit threw Elizabeth into, could not be easily overcome; nor could she, for many hours, learn to think of it less than incessantly.
Upon the whole, therefore, she found, what has been sometimes found before, that an event to which she had been looking with impatient desire did not, in taking place, bring all the satisfaction she had promised herself.
"My dear Mr. Bennet," replied his wife, "how can you be so tiresome!
She had ventured only one glance at Darcy.
Besides, there was truth in his looks."
When the first transports of rage which had produced his activity in seeking her were over, he naturally returned to all his former indolence.
Very frequently were they reproached for this insensibility by Kitty and Lydia, whose own misery was extreme, and who could not comprehend such hard-heartedness in any of the family.
"Indeed, Mamma, you are mistaken," said Elizabeth, blushing for her mother.
And then, you know, when once they get together, there is no end of it.
Collins."
He cannot know what Mr. Darcy is."
Where shall you change horses?
At five o'clock the two ladies retired to dress, and at half-past six Elizabeth was summoned to dinner.
The sanguine hope of good, however, which the benevolence of her heart suggested had not yet deserted her; she still expected that it would all end well, and that every morning would bring some letter, either from Lydia or her father, to explain their proceedings, and, perhaps, announce their marriage.
hang Kitty!
"I wonder my aunt did not tell us of _that_."
Will you allow me, or do I ask too much, to introduce my sister to your acquaintance during your stay at Lambton?"
_My_ father began life in the profession which your uncle, Mr. Phillips, appears to do so much credit to--but he gave up everything to be of use to the late Mr. Darcy and devoted all his time to the care of the Pemberley property.
But nothing can be done--I know very well that nothing can be done.
Kitty is slight and delicate; and Mary studies so much, that her hours of repose should not be broken in on.
I know you will do him such ample justice, that I am growing every moment more unconcerned and indifferent.
"How strange this is!
Yes, Miss Bennet, interest; for do not expect to be noticed by his family or friends, if you wilfully act against the inclinations of all.
I hope your plans in favour of the ----shire will not be affected by his being in the neighbourhood."
Mr. Bingley and Jane remained at Netherfield only a twelvemonth.
If your abhorrence of _me_ should make _my_ assertions valueless, you cannot be prevented by the same cause from confiding in my cousin; and that there may be the possibility of consulting him, I shall endeavour to find some opportunity of putting this letter in your hands in the course of the morning.
She then ran gaily off, rejoicing as she rambled about, in the hope of being at home again in a day or two.
In making me the offer, you must have satisfied the delicacy of your feelings with regard to my family, and may take possession of Longbourn estate whenever it falls, without any self-reproach.
You had better return to your partner and enjoy her smiles, for you are wasting your time with me."
_He_ was exactly what he had been, when I knew him in Hertfordshire; but I would not tell you how little I was satisfied with her behaviour while she staid with us, if I had not perceived, by Jane's letter last Wednesday, that her conduct on coming home was exactly of a piece with it, and therefore what I now tell you can give you no fresh pain.
"I wonder," said he, at the next opportunity of speaking, "whether he is likely to be in this country much longer."
"And may I ask--" said Elizabeth; "but the terms, I suppose, must be complied with."
"I hope, my dear," said Mr. Bennet to his wife, as they were at breakfast the next morning, "that you have ordered a good dinner to-day, because I have reason to expect an addition to our family party."
Poor Charlotte!
"My dear madam," he replied, "this invitation is particularly gratifying, because it is what I have been hoping to receive; and you may be very certain that I shall avail myself of it as soon as possible."
"Shall we ask your cousin the reason of this?"
But the spiritless condition which this event threw her into was shortly relieved, and her mind opened again to the agitation of hope, by an article of news which then began to be in circulation.
Women fancy admiration means more than it does."
They had several children.
I cannot catch their tone of conversation, or appear interested in their concerns, as I often see done."
"All young ladies accomplished!
I shall never forget her appearance this morning.
Her father had most cruelly mortified her, by what he said of Mr. Darcy's indifference, and she could do nothing but wonder at such a want of penetration, or fear that perhaps, instead of his seeing too little, she might have fancied too much.
But Elizabeth had sources of uneasiness which could not be suspected by Jane, to whom she had never yet had courage to shew Mrs. Gardiner's letter, or to relate her own change of sentiment towards him.
"Or, in other words, you are determined to have him.
A long dispute followed this declaration; but Mr. Bennet was firm.
Their lodgings were not long a secret, and at length they began to know the officers themselves.
I thought it my duty to give the speediest intelligence of this to my cousin, that she and her noble admirer may be aware of what they are about, and not run hastily into a marriage which has not been properly sanctioned.'
That the Miss Lucases and the Miss Bennets should meet to talk over a ball was absolutely necessary; and the morning after the assembly brought the former to Longbourn to hear and to communicate.
But my dearest love, tell me what dish Mr. Darcy is particularly fond of, that I may have it to-morrow."
So imprudent a match on both sides!
And so, my dear sister, I find, from our uncle and aunt, that you have actually seen Pemberley."
"I am very glad to hear such a good account of her," said Lady Catherine; "and pray tell her from me, that she cannot expect to excel if she does not practice a good deal."
Then taking the disengaged arm of Mr. Darcy, she left Elizabeth to walk by herself.
Such I was, from eight to eight and twenty; and such I might still have been but for you, dearest, loveliest Elizabeth!
My father, however, is partial to Mr. Wickham.
I am only resolved to act in that manner, which will, in my own opinion, constitute my happiness, without reference to _you_, or to any person so wholly unconnected with me."
We accordingly went--and there I readily engaged in the office of pointing out to my friend the certain evils of such a choice.
Wherever you and Jane are known you must be respected and valued; and you will not appear to less advantage for having a couple of--or I may say, three--very silly sisters.
I shall then give over every expectation, every wish of his constancy.
That will make thirteen with ourselves, so there will be just room at table for him."
After many pauses and many trials of other subjects, Elizabeth could not help reverting once more to the first, and saying:  "I am astonished at his intimacy with Mr. Bingley!
How you must have hated me after _that_ evening?"
"True," said Mr. Bennet, "but it is a comfort to think that whatever of that kind may befall you, you have an affectionate mother who will make the most of it."
"Your great men often are; and therefore I shall not take him at his word, as he might change his mind another day, and warn me off his grounds."
Those who do not complain are never pitied."
At present I will not say more; but, perhaps, when we are better acquainted--"  He was interrupted by a summons to dinner; and the girls smiled on each other.
There is nothing extravagant in _their_ housekeeping, I dare say."
"You excel so much in the dance, Miss Eliza, that it is cruel to deny me the happiness of seeing you; and though this gentleman dislikes the amusement in general, he can have no objection, I am sure, to oblige us for one half-hour."
But _now_ suppose as much as you choose; give a loose rein to your fancy, indulge your imagination in every possible flight which the subject will afford, and unless you believe me actually married, you cannot greatly err.
To fortune I am perfectly indifferent, and shall make no demand of that nature on your father, since I am well aware that it could not be complied with; and that one thousand pounds in the four per cents, which will not be yours till after your mother's decease, is all that you may ever be entitled to.
"But, depend upon it, Mr. Collins," she added, "that Lizzy shall be brought to reason.
Jane instantly gave a look at Elizabeth which spoke her distress at such premeditation, and her entreaty that _she_ would not give in to it.
Darcy."
His debts are to be paid, amounting, I believe, to considerably more than a thousand pounds, another thousand in addition to her own settled upon _her_, and his commission purchased.
The good news spread quickly through the house, and with proportionate speed through the neighbourhood.
said he, smiling.
They ran through the vestibule into the breakfast-room; from thence to the library; their father was in neither; and they were on the point of seeking him up stairs with their mother, when they were met by the butler, who said:  "If you are looking for my master, ma'am, he is walking towards the little copse."
Colonel Fitzwilliam's manners were very much admired at the Parsonage, and the ladies all felt that he must add considerably to the pleasures of their engagements at Rosings.
She then changed the discourse to one more gratifying to each, and on which there could be no difference of sentiment.
Elizabeth replied that it was.
And one of my own daughters.
"MY DEAR FRIEND,--  "If you are not so compassionate as to dine to-day with Louisa and me, we shall be in danger of hating each other for the rest of our lives, for a whole day's tete-a-tete between two women can never end without a quarrel.
I thought him very sly;--he hardly ever mentioned your name.
She shook her head.
Jane confessed herself a little surprised at the match; but she said less of her astonishment than of her earnest desire for their happiness; nor could Elizabeth persuade her to consider it as improbable.
To these highflown expressions Elizabeth listened with all the insensibility of distrust; and though the suddenness of their removal surprised her, she saw nothing in it really to lament; it was not to be supposed that their absence from Netherfield would prevent Mr. Bingley's being there; and as to the loss of their society, she was persuaded that Jane must cease to regard it, in the enjoyment of his.
I had narrowly observed her during the two visits which I had lately made here; and I was convinced of her affection."
These are the kind of little things which please her ladyship, and it is a sort of attention which I conceive myself peculiarly bound to pay."
So much the better.
She sat intently at work, striving to be composed, and without daring to lift up her eyes, till anxious curiosity carried them to the face of her sister as the servant was approaching the door.
Respect, esteem, and confidence had vanished for ever; and all his views of domestic happiness were overthrown.
She watched him whenever they were at Rosings, and whenever he came to Hunsford; but without much success.
Elizabeth's astonishment was beyond expression.
"Mr.
Her hopes were answered; Jane had not been gone long before it rained hard.
Not a soul knew of it, but Colonel and Mrs. Forster, and Kitty and me, except my aunt, for we were forced to borrow one of her gowns; and you cannot imagine how well he looked!
He and his sisters were well, I hope, when you left London?"
Human nature is so prone to fall into it!
That he was really fond of Jane, she doubted no more than she had ever done; and much as she had always been disposed to like him, she could not think without anger, hardly without contempt, on that easiness of temper, that want of proper resolution, which now made him the slave of his designing friends, and led him to sacrifice of his own happiness to the caprice of their inclination.
Elizabeth honestly and heartily expressed her delight in the prospect of their relationship.
But Lizzy, you have been very sly, very reserved with me.
Mr. Bingley had danced with her twice, and she had been distinguished by his sisters.
If there were anyone that one could apply to with a probability of gaining such a clue as that, it might be of essential consequence.
"They are wanted in the farm much oftener than I can get them."
what is the matter?"
I think she will be pleased with the hermitage."
By this time she is actually with them!
He began to wish to know more of her, and as a step towards conversing with her himself, attended to her conversation with others.
Sir William and Lady Lucas were speedily applied to for their consent; and it was bestowed with a most joyful alacrity.
"Indeed, Mr. Bennet," said she, "it is very hard to think that Charlotte Lucas should ever be mistress of this house, that I should be forced to make way for _her_, and live to see her take her place in it!"
said Elizabeth to herself.
"Miss Elizabeth Bennet!"
But they are very pleasing women when you converse with them.
She certainly did not hate him.
He generously imputed the whole to his mistaken pride, and confessed that he had before thought it beneath him to lay his private actions open to the world.
thought Elizabeth.
I knew you would be wishing me joy."
All Elizabeth's anger against him had been long done away; but had she still felt any, it could hardly have stood its ground against the unaffected cordiality with which he expressed himself on seeing her again.
It has connected him nearer with virtue than with any other feeling.
said she, as she looked in her face.
"Nay, if you are serious about it, I shall consider the matter is absolutely settled.
There he had talked to her friends, when he could not to herself.
The colour now rushed into Elizabeth's cheeks in the instantaneous conviction of its being a letter from the nephew, instead of the aunt; and she was undetermined whether most to be pleased that he explained himself at all, or offended that his letter was not rather addressed to herself; when her father continued:  "You look conscious.
was a wonder which introduced the discussion of their affairs.
I dearly love a laugh."
We must trespass a little longer on your kindness."
_You_ think it a faithful portrait undoubtedly."
When she saw him thus seeking the acquaintance and courting the good opinion of people with whom any intercourse a few months ago would have been a disgrace--when she saw him thus civil, not only to herself, but to the very relations whom he had openly disdained, and recollected their last lively scene in Hunsford Parsonage--the difference, the change was so great, and struck so forcibly on her mind, that she could hardly restrain her astonishment from being visible.
He scarcely needed an invitation to stay supper; and before he went away, an engagement was formed, chiefly through his own and Mrs. Bennet's means, for his coming next morning to shoot with her husband.
"My dear madam," replied he, "let us be for ever silent on this point.
There is but one part of my conduct in the whole affair on which I do not reflect with satisfaction; it is that I condescended to adopt the measures of art so far as to conceal from him your sister's being in town.
Mr. Bingley had not been of age two years, when he was tempted by an accidental recommendation to look at Netherfield House.
It was impossible to imagine; it was impossible not to long to know.
"Take whatever you like, and get away."
I ask only a comfortable home; and considering Mr. Collins's character, connection, and situation in life, I am convinced that my chance of happiness with him is as fair as most people can boast on entering the marriage state."
She is up stairs and will have great satisfaction in seeing you all.
My reasons for believing it are briefly these: It does not appear to me that my hand is unworthy your acceptance, or that the establishment I can offer would be any other than highly desirable.
"What do you mean, Hill?
In confirmation of this, she related the particulars of all the pecuniary transactions in which they had been connected, without actually naming her authority, but stating it to be such as might be relied on.
I am not qualified to form one.
And as to laughter, we will not expose ourselves, if you please, by attempting to laugh without a subject.
cried Elizabeth, when she had finished.
Consider Mr. Collins's respectability, and Charlotte's steady, prudent character.
Could he expect to be noticed again by the regiment, after such an affront to Colonel Forster?
There was not much in the question, nor in the preceding remark; but there was a look and a manner which gave them meaning.
But I will not repine.
She seems perfectly happy, however, and in a prudential light it is certainly a very good match for her."
I am not afraid of her dying.
I am not afraid of her dying.
I do assure you that I am not one of those young ladies (if such young ladies there are) who are so daring as to risk their happiness on the chance of being asked a second time.
In describing to her all the grandeur of Lady Catherine and her mansion, with occasional digressions in praise of his own humble abode, and the improvements it was receiving, he was happily employed until the gentlemen joined them; and he found in Mrs. Phillips a very attentive listener, whose opinion of his consequence increased with what she heard, and who was resolving to retail it all among her neighbours as soon as she could.
What is it about?
But it ended in nothing, and I will not be sent on a fool's errand again."
Their mutual affection will steady them; and I flatter myself they will settle so quietly, and live in so rational a manner, as may in time make their past imprudence forgotten."
"If you were to give me forty such men, I never could be so happy as you.
or had you intended any more serious consequence?"
When Darcy returned to the saloon, Miss Bingley could not help repeating to him some part of what she had been saying to his sister.
That his anger could be carried to such a point of inconceivable resentment as to refuse his daughter a privilege without which her marriage would scarcely seem valid, exceeded all she could believe possible.
All that is known after this is, that they were seen to continue the London road.
His belief of her sister's insensibility she instantly resolved to be false; and his account of the real, the worst objections to the match, made her too angry to have any wish of doing him justice.
But here, by carrying with me one ceaseless source of regret in my sister's absence, I may reasonably hope to have all my expectations of pleasure realised.
She is the most beautiful creature I ever beheld!
Even Elizabeth began to fear--not that Bingley was indifferent--but that his sisters would be successful in keeping him away.
Lady Catherine, it appeared, had actually taken the trouble of this journey from Rosings, for the sole purpose of breaking off her supposed engagement with Mr. Darcy.
"I am afraid, Mr. Darcy," observed Miss Bingley in a half whisper, "that this adventure has rather affected your admiration of her fine eyes."
Her ladyship received them civilly, but it was plain that their company was by no means so acceptable as when she could get nobody else; and she was, in fact, almost engrossed by her nephews, speaking to them, especially to Darcy, much more than to any other person in the room.
At present, indeed, they were well supplied both with news and happiness by the recent arrival of a militia regiment in the neighbourhood; it was to remain the whole winter, and Meryton was the headquarters.
"He likes to have his own way very well," replied Colonel Fitzwilliam.
And so extremely accomplished for her age!
or had you intended any more serious consequence?"
He readily assured her of his secrecy; again expressed his sorrow for her distress, wished it a happier conclusion than there was at present reason to hope, and leaving his compliments for her relations, with only one serious, parting look, went away.
Bingley was ready, Georgiana was eager, and Darcy determined, to be pleased.
And you saw the old housekeeper, I suppose?
"It keeps him in good humour," said she, "and I am more obliged to you than I can express."
Anxiety on Jane's behalf was another prevailing concern; and Mr. Darcy's explanation, by restoring Bingley to all her former good opinion, heightened the sense of what Jane had lost.
I thought it my duty to give the speediest intelligence of this to my cousin, that she and her noble admirer may be aware of what they are about, and not run hastily into a marriage which has not been properly sanctioned.'
She told the story, however, with great spirit among her friends; for she had a lively, playful disposition, which delighted in anything ridiculous.
"These are home questions--and perhaps I cannot say that I have experienced many hardships of that nature.
In every view it is unaccountable!"
So far each recital confirmed the other; but when she came to the will, the difference was great.
"For heaven's sake, madam, speak lower.
She said no more, and they went down the other dance and parted in silence; and on each side dissatisfied, though not to an equal degree, for in Darcy's breast there was a tolerable powerful feeling towards her, which soon procured her pardon, and directed all his anger against another.
Then, showing her purchases--"Look here, I have bought this bonnet.
What would I give to hear your strictures on them!"
Let _our_ first effusions be less insupportable than those of the generality of travellers."
This is the estimation in which you hold me!
He spoke of it as a certain event, of which the time alone could be undecided.
When they parted, Lady Catherine, with great condescension, wished them a good journey, and invited them to come to Hunsford again next year; and Miss de Bourgh exerted herself so far as to curtsey and hold out her hand to both.
said Jane.
He did not judge your father to be a person whom he could so properly consult as your uncle, and therefore readily postponed seeing him till after the departure of the former.
He had been some time with Mr. Gardiner, who, with two or three other gentlemen from the house, was engaged by the river, and had left him only on learning that the ladies of the family intended a visit to Georgiana that morning.
The present unhappy state of the family rendered any other excuse for the lowness of her spirits unnecessary; nothing, therefore, could be fairly conjectured from _that_, though Elizabeth, who was by this time tolerably well acquainted with her own feelings, was perfectly aware that, had she known nothing of Darcy, she could have borne the dread of Lydia's infamy somewhat better.
She shall hear my opinion."
Fixed there by the keenest of all anguish, self-reproach, she could find no interval of ease or forgetfulness.
Proud that in a cause of compassion and honour, he had been able to get the better of himself.
But there was still something lurking behind, of which prudence forbade the disclosure.
"And so ended his affection," said Elizabeth impatiently.
What praise is more valuable than the praise of an intelligent servant?
"It is a circumstance which Darcy could not wish to be generally known, because if it were to get round to the lady's family, it would be an unpleasant thing."
The two young ladies were summoned from the shrubbery, where this conversation passed, by the arrival of the very persons of whom they had been speaking; Mr. Bingley and his sisters came to give their personal invitation for the long-expected ball at Netherfield, which was fixed for the following Tuesday.
I remember, as soon as ever I saw him, when he first came into Hertfordshire last year, I thought how likely it was that you should come together.
There are undoubtedly many who could not say the same, but thanks to Lady Catherine de Bourgh, I am removed far beyond the necessity of regarding little matters."
It could not be for society, as he frequently sat there ten minutes together without opening his lips; and when he did speak, it seemed the effect of necessity rather than of choice--a sacrifice to propriety, not a pleasure to himself.
Now is your time.
You are charmingly grouped, and appear to uncommon advantage.
I cannot understand it.
They could talk of nothing but officers; and Mr. Bingley's large fortune, the mention of which gave animation to their mother, was worthless in their eyes when opposed to the regimentals of an ensign.
"She is a most charming young lady indeed.
Perhaps he thought her too young.
Your lively talents would place you in the greatest danger in an unequal marriage.
Such a disappointment!
At such a moment, the arrival of her friend was a sincere pleasure to Elizabeth, though in the course of their meetings she must sometimes think the pleasure dearly bought, when she saw Mr. Darcy exposed to all the parading and obsequious civility of her husband.
After this day, Jane said no more of her indifference.
Lydia's going to Brighton was all that consoled her for her melancholy conviction of her husband's never intending to go there himself.
For, though your accusations were ill-founded, formed on mistaken premises, my behaviour to you at the time had merited the severest reproof.
But it is of small importance."
Mrs. Gardiner was surprised and concerned; but as they were now approaching the scene of her former pleasures, every idea gave way to the charm of recollection; and she was too much engaged in pointing out to her husband all the interesting spots in its environs to think of anything else.
There was neither in figure nor face any likeness between the ladies.
He can have nothing to say to me that anybody need not hear.
Mr. Wickham's adieus were much more affectionate than his wife's.
Elizabeth, though she did not credit above half of what was said, believed enough to make her former assurance of her sister's ruin more certain; and even Jane, who believed still less of it, became almost hopeless, more especially as the time was now come when, if they had gone to Scotland, which she had never before entirely despaired of, they must in all probability have gained some news of them.
To Mr. Bennet's acknowledgments he briefly replied, with assurance of his eagerness to promote the welfare of any of his family; and concluded with entreaties that the subject might never be mentioned to him again.
Miss Bingley moved with some alacrity to the pianoforte; and, after a polite request that Elizabeth would lead the way which the other as politely and more earnestly negatived, she seated herself.
He is rich, to be sure, and you may have more fine clothes and fine carriages than Jane.
She certainly did not hate him.
Mr. Collins and Charlotte were both standing at the gate in conversation with the ladies; and Sir William, to Elizabeth's high diversion, was stationed in the doorway, in earnest contemplation of the greatness before him, and constantly bowing whenever Miss de Bourgh looked that way.
"It has been a very agreeable day," said Miss Bennet to Elizabeth.
Persuaded as Miss Bingley was that Darcy admired Elizabeth, this was not the best method of recommending herself; but angry people are not always wise; and in seeing him at last look somewhat nettled, she had all the success she expected.
We must have Mrs. Long and the Gouldings soon.
They had several children.
As all conversation was thereby at an end, Elizabeth soon afterwards left the room.
Jane now came up.
Let me know every thing that I am to know, without delay.
And who is there, whatever might be their former conduct, that she would think capable of such an attempt, till it were proved against them?
I thank you for explaining it so fully.
I wonder who first discovered the efficacy of poetry in driving away love!"
She certainly did not hate him.
He did every thing best in the world; and she was sure he would kill more birds on the first of September, than any body else in the country.
Mr. Hurst had therefore nothing to do, but to stretch himself on one of the sofas and go to sleep.
I am so happy!
Colonel Fitzwilliam was no longer an object; she could think only of her letter.
"Can such abominable pride as his have ever done him good?"
But with such a father and mother, and such low connections, I am afraid there is no chance of it."
Miss Bingley's attention was quite as much engaged in watching Mr. Darcy's progress through _his_ book, as in reading her own; and she was perpetually either making some inquiry, or looking at his page.
An invitation to dinner was soon afterwards dispatched; and already had Mrs. Bennet planned the courses that were to do credit to her housekeeping, when an answer arrived which deferred it all.
"Perhaps it would have been better," replied her sister.
He answered her in the same style, and the subject dropped.
You and the girls may go, or you may send them by themselves, which perhaps will be still better, for as you are as handsome as any of them, Mr. Bingley may like you the best of the party."
Her eldest daughter endeavoured to give some relief to the violence of these transports, by leading her thoughts to the obligations which Mr. Gardiner's behaviour laid them all under.
"Yes, sir; but I do not know when _that_ will be.
I am sure we never read the same, or not with the same feelings."
"When all this was resolved on, he returned again to his friends, who were still staying at Pemberley; but it was agreed that he should be in London once more when the wedding took place, and all money matters were then to receive the last finish.
Mr. Bennet treated the matter differently.
The ladies were somewhat more fortunate, for they had the advantage of ascertaining from an upper window that he wore a blue coat, and rode a black horse.
"You make me laugh, Charlotte; but it is not sound.
And poor Mr. Darcy!
"Is this," thought Elizabeth, "meant for me?"
"So much the better.
The walk being here less sheltered than on the other side, allowed them to see him before they met.
I thought him very sly;--he hardly ever mentioned your name.
When they left the high road for the lane to Hunsford, every eye was in search of the Parsonage, and every turning expected to bring it in view.
We dressed up Chamberlayne in woman's clothes on purpose to pass for a lady, only think what fun!
"John told us Mr. Darcy was here when you sent for us; was it so?"
If it were not allowable for him to gain _my_ affections because I had no money, what occasion could there be for making love to a girl whom he did not care about, and who was equally poor?"
It is as often applied to feelings which arise from a half-hour's acquaintance, as to a real, strong attachment.
The pain of separation, however, might be alleviated on his side, by preparations for the reception of his bride; as he had reason to hope, that shortly after his return into Hertfordshire, the day would be fixed that was to make him the happiest of men.
cried his wife impatiently.
And in the first place, let us hear what has happened to you all since you went away.
It is wonderful how many families I have been the means of supplying in that way.
Her brother, whose eye she feared to meet, scarcely recollected her interest in the affair, and the very circumstance which had been designed to turn his thoughts from Elizabeth seemed to have fixed them on her more and more cheerfully.
Mr. Collins, meanwhile, was meditating in solitude on what had passed.
The insipidity, and yet the noise--the nothingness, and yet the self-importance of all those people!
In her kind schemes for Elizabeth, she sometimes planned her marrying Colonel Fitzwilliam.
Lady Catherine de Bourgh's attention to his wishes, and consideration for his comfort, appeared very remarkable.
"I found," said he, "as the time drew near that I had better not meet Mr. Darcy; that to be in the same room, the same party with him for so many hours together, might be more than I could bear, and that scenes might arise unpleasant to more than myself."
Mr. Darcy seemed much pleased with the attention.
I need not explain myself farther; and though _we_ know this anxiety to be quite needless, yet if she feels it, it will easily account for her behaviour to me; and so deservedly dear as he is to his sister, whatever anxiety she must feel on his behalf is natural and amiable.
He then sat down by her, and talked scarcely to anyone else.
Lady Catherine observed, after dinner, that Miss Bennet seemed out of spirits, and immediately accounting for it by herself, by supposing that she did not like to go home again so soon, she added:  "But if that is the case, you must write to your mother and beg that you may stay a little longer.
said Jane as she finished it.
my dear father," she cried, "come back and write immediately.
But we are all liable to error.
He could tell her nothing new of the wonders of his presentation and knighthood; and his civilities were worn out, like his information.
"No," replied Jane, "I have not forgotten him; but I have nothing satisfactory to tell you.
the ladies had crowded round the table, where Miss Bennet was making tea, and Elizabeth pouring out the coffee, in so close a confederacy that there was not a single vacancy near her which would admit of a chair.
Did she call to refuse her consent?"
I thank you again and again for the honour you have done me in your proposals, but to accept them is absolutely impossible.
I know no harm of her."
As Mrs. Gardiner began to wish to be at home, it was settled that she and the children should go to London, at the same time that Mr. Bennet came from it.
In confirmation of this, she related the particulars of all the pecuniary transactions in which they had been connected, without actually naming her authority, but stating it to be such as might be relied on.
Their visitors were not to remain above ten days with them.
"Oh!
Miss Bennet's pleasing manners grew on the goodwill of Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley; and though the mother was found to be intolerable, and the younger sisters not worth speaking to, a wish of being better acquainted with _them_ was expressed towards the two eldest.
He did not leave his name, and till the next day it was only known that a gentleman had called on business.
Elizabeth made no answer, and took her place in the set, amazed at the dignity to which she was arrived in being allowed to stand opposite to Mr. Darcy, and reading in her neighbours' looks, their equal amazement in beholding it.
Jane met her with a smile of such sweet complacency, a glow of such happy expression, as sufficiently marked how well she was satisfied with the occurrences of the evening.
"Very true, indeed; and now, my dear Jane, what have you got to say on behalf of the interested people who have probably been concerned in the business?
"It is only evident that Miss Bingley does not mean that he _should_."
Allow me, by the way, to observe, my fair cousin, that I do not reckon the notice and kindness of Lady Catherine de Bourgh as among the least of the advantages in my power to offer.
But no such recollection befriended her.
Lydia was bid by her two eldest sisters to hold her tongue; but Mr. Collins, much offended, laid aside his book, and said:  "I have often observed how little young ladies are interested by books of a serious stamp, though written solely for their benefit.
Mrs. Bennet was perfectly satisfied, and quitted the house under the delightful persuasion that, allowing for the necessary preparations of settlements, new carriages, and wedding clothes, she should undoubtedly see her daughter settled at Netherfield in the course of three or four months.
One seems so forlorn without them."
though I thought it would be very good fun if I was."
"So, Lizzy," said he one day, "your sister is crossed in love, I find.
"Tell me once for all, are you engaged to him?"
But it was not to be.
"And so ended his affection," said Elizabeth impatiently.
At length there was nothing more to be said; the ladies drove on, and the others returned into the house.
She followed him with her eyes, envied everyone to whom he spoke, had scarcely patience enough to help anybody to coffee; and then was enraged against herself for being so silly!
He begged pardon for having displeased her.
At that moment, Sir William Lucas appeared close to them, meaning to pass through the set to the other side of the room; but on perceiving Mr. Darcy, he stopped with a bow of superior courtesy to compliment him on his dancing and his partner.
You could not have started a more happy idea, since you will not take comfort in mine.
I will not encourage the impudence of either, by receiving them at Longbourn."
The particulars I reserve till we meet; it is enough to know they are discovered.
Do you not consider that a connection with you must disgrace him in the eyes of everybody?"
What praise is more valuable than the praise of an intelligent servant?
You had better neglect your relations than run the risk of offending your patroness."
I speak nothing but the truth.
But I know the foundation is unjust.
"Oh!
His diffidence had prevented his depending on his own judgment in so anxious a case, but his reliance on mine made every thing easy.
What am I to do?"
The ladies were somewhat more fortunate, for they had the advantage of ascertaining from an upper window that he wore a blue coat, and rode a black horse.
You will only think I feel _more_ than I ought to do, when I tell you all."
"I am very sensible, madam, of the hardship to my fair cousins, and could say much on the subject, but that I am cautious of appearing forward and precipitate.
But, however this remonstrance might have staggered or delayed his determination, I do not suppose that it would ultimately have prevented the marriage, had it not been seconded by the assurance that I hesitated not in giving, of your sister's indifference.
A little time, therefore--I shall certainly try to get the better."
"You may depend on it," replied the other, "for Mrs. Nicholls was in Meryton last night; I saw her passing by, and went out myself on purpose to know the truth of it; and she told me that it was certain true.
They must have seen them together for ever."
"And this is your real opinion!
The reason why all this was to be done by him alone, was such as I have given above.
That she should have walked three miles so early in the day, in such dirty weather, and by herself, was almost incredible to Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley; and Elizabeth was convinced that they held her in contempt for it.
A week elapsed before she could see Elizabeth without scolding her, a month passed away before she could speak to Sir William or Lady Lucas without being rude, and many months were gone before she could at all forgive their daughter.
But you would not wish to be dancing when she is ill."  Lydia declared herself satisfied.
The gentlemen did approach, and when Mr. Wickham walked into the room, Elizabeth felt that she had neither been seeing him before, nor thinking of him since, with the smallest degree of unreasonable admiration.
Such squeamish youths as cannot bear to be connected with a little absurdity are not worth a regret.
who would willingly have gone through the world without believing that so much wickedness existed in the whole race of mankind, as was here collected in one individual.
It had come with a fare from London; and as he thought that the circumstance of a gentleman and lady's removing from one carriage into another might be remarked he meant to make inquiries at Clapham.
His complexion became pale with anger, and the disturbance of his mind was visible in every feature.
I do assure you that my intimacy has not yet taught me _that_.
"What do you mean, Mr. Bennet, in talking this way?
"Your cousin's conduct does not suit my feelings.
Mr. Collins had a compliment, and an allusion to throw in here, which were kindly smiled on by the mother and daughter.
"To walk three miles, or four miles, or five miles, or whatever it is, above her ankles in dirt, and alone, quite alone!
If gratitude and esteem are good foundations of affection, Elizabeth's change of sentiment will be neither improbable nor faulty.
Darcy, on the contrary, had seen a collection of people in whom there was little beauty and no fashion, for none of whom he had felt the smallest interest, and from none received either attention or pleasure.
She knew how little such a situation would give pleasure to either, or make either appear to advantage.
Say that urgent business calls us home immediately.
Did you, on reading it, give any credit to its contents?"
She felt anew the justice of Mr. Darcy's objections; and never had she been so much disposed to pardon his interference in the views of his friend.
But who could have foreseen such an attention as this?
When convinced on that article, Miss Bennet had nothing further to wish.
He delighted in going to Pemberley, especially when he was least expected.
Had the late Mr. Darcy liked me less, his son might have borne with me better; but his father's uncommon attachment to me irritated him, I believe, very early in life.
"Gracechurch Street, Monday, August 2.
Your mother should have taken you to town every spring for the benefit of masters."
I talked about the dance, and _you_ ought to make some sort of remark on the size of the room, or the number of couples."
As a child I was taught what was right, but I was not taught to correct my temper.
"Oh, no!"
"Did it," said he, "did it soon make you think better of me?
After a silence of several minutes, he came towards her in an agitated manner, and thus began:  "In vain I have struggled.
She saw, with the creative eye of fancy, the streets of that gay bathing-place covered with officers.
"At once to insist upon having such a report universally contradicted."
Would to Heaven that anything could be either said or done on my part that might offer consolation to such distress!
Let me congratulate you on a very important conquest."
"Yes, in conjunction with his friend."
I was told that not only your sister was on the point of being most advantageously married, but that you, that Miss Elizabeth Bennet, would, in all likelihood, be soon afterwards united to my nephew, my own nephew, Mr. Darcy.
"No; he never saw him till the other morning at Meryton."
After abusing you so abominably to your face, I could have no scruple in abusing you to all your relations."
After waiting at home every morning for a fortnight, and inventing every evening a fresh excuse for her, the visitor did at last appear; but the shortness of her stay, and yet more, the alteration of her manner would allow Jane to deceive herself no longer.
"But what," said she, after a pause, "can have been his motive?
If you'll believe me, I did not once put my foot out of doors, though I was there a fortnight.
"This is wholly unexpected.
he has _some_ friends, though perhaps not so many as he deserves."
The wisest and the best of men--nay, the wisest and best of their actions--may be rendered ridiculous by a person whose first object in life is a joke."
About the middle of the next day, as she was in her room getting ready for a walk, a sudden noise below seemed to speak the whole house in confusion; and, after listening a moment, she heard somebody running up stairs in a violent hurry, and calling loudly after her.
As no objection was made to the young people's engagement with their aunt, and all Mr. Collins's scruples of leaving Mr. and Mrs. Bennet for a single evening during his visit were most steadily resisted, the coach conveyed him and his five cousins at a suitable hour to Meryton; and the girls had the pleasure of hearing, as they entered the drawing-room, that Mr. Wickham had accepted their uncle's invitation, and was then in the house.
"Oh!
He then went away, and Miss Bingley was left to all the satisfaction of having forced him to say what gave no one any pain but herself.
Unfortunately an only son (for many years an only child), I was spoilt by my parents, who, though good themselves (my father, particularly, all that was benevolent and amiable), allowed, encouraged, almost taught me to be selfish and overbearing; to care for none beyond my own family circle; to think meanly of all the rest of the world; to wish at least to think meanly of their sense and worth compared with my own.
"This will not do," said Elizabeth; "you never will be able to make both of them good for anything.
You are determined to ruin him in the opinion of all his friends, and make him the contempt of the world."
She blushed again and again over the perverseness of the meeting.
It is evident that you belong to the first circles.
we had such a good piece of fun the other day at Colonel Forster's.
Have all her friends left her?"
It was more than civil; it was really attentive; and there was no necessity for such attention.
"That is to say, you had given your permission.
"I hope not."
Not one party, or scheme, or anything.
These parties were acceptable to all; to avoid a family circle was even more desirable to such as did think, than such as did not.
Bingley was by no means deficient, but Darcy was clever.
I quite forgot!
But slyness seems the fashion.
"Then, who taught you?
In what imaginary act of friendship can you here defend yourself?
Darcy was delighted with their engagement; his friend had given him the earliest information of it.
my dear Mr. Bennet," as she entered the room, "we have had a most delightful evening, a most excellent ball.
At length every idea seemed to fail him; and, after standing a few moments without saying a word, he suddenly recollected himself, and took leave.
"I am sorry, exceedingly sorry," replied Darcy, in a tone of surprise and emotion, "that you have ever been informed of what may, in a mistaken light, have given you uneasiness.
"Yes, indeed," cried Mrs. Bennet, offended by his manner of mentioning a country neighbourhood.
Do not let us quarrel about the past.
But when this subject was succeeded by his account of Mr. Wickham--when she read with somewhat clearer attention a relation of events which, if true, must overthrow every cherished opinion of his worth, and which bore so alarming an affinity to his own history of himself--her feelings were yet more acutely painful and more difficult of definition.
His attentions to Miss King were now the consequence of views solely and hatefully mercenary; and the mediocrity of her fortune proved no longer the moderation of his wishes, but his eagerness to grasp at anything.
"Are you so severe upon your own sex as to doubt the possibility of all this?"
"Very much."
Till I have your disposition, your goodness, I never can have your happiness.
But Georgiana would not join her.
I consider it as one of the first refinements of polished society."
Thoughtless and indiscreet I can easily believe him, but this step (and let us rejoice over it) marks nothing bad at heart.
It was an animating subject, and Mrs. Bennet seemed incapable of fatigue while enumerating the advantages of the match.
"Elizabeth, you are not serious now."
And though he exclaimed at the term, she found that it had been pretty much the case.
Has she any family?"
"It may perhaps be pleasant," replied Charlotte, "to be able to impose on the public in such a case; but it is sometimes a disadvantage to be so very guarded.
In making me the offer, you must have satisfied the delicacy of your feelings with regard to my family, and may take possession of Longbourn estate whenever it falls, without any self-reproach.
We can all _begin_ freely--a slight preference is natural enough; but there are very few of us who have heart enough to be really in love without encouragement.
"The part which I acted is now to be explained.
I have heard you mention them with consideration these last twenty years at least."
They were always moving from place to place in quest of a cheap situation, and always spending more than they ought.
He was struggling for the appearance of composure, and would not open his lips till he believed himself to have attained it.
Indeed he has no improper pride.
Heaven forbid!
said Jane, faintly smiling.
But, however, he did not admire her at all; indeed, nobody can, you know; and he seemed quite struck with Jane as she was going down the dance.
"I believe I have now told you every thing.
Two of her girls had been upon the point of marriage, and after all there was nothing in it.
Elizabeth's spirits were so high on this occasion, that though she did not often speak unnecessarily to Mr. Collins, she could not help asking him whether he intended to accept Mr. Bingley's invitation, and if he did, whether he would think it proper to join in the evening's amusement; and she was rather surprised to find that he entertained no scruple whatever on that head, and was very far from dreading a rebuke either from the Archbishop, or Lady Catherine de Bourgh, by venturing to dance.
He began to wish to know more of her, and as a step towards conversing with her himself, attended to her conversation with others.
He was the proudest, most disagreeable man in the world, and everybody hoped that he would never come there again.
She then sought her eldest sister, who has undertaken to make inquiries on the same subject of Bingley.
As soon as all had ate, and the elder ones paid, the carriage was ordered; and after some contrivance, the whole party, with all their boxes, work-bags, and parcels, and the unwelcome addition of Kitty's and Lydia's purchases, were seated in it.
"You know pretty well, I suppose, what has been done for the young people.
If it was not for the entail, I should not mind it."
You give me fresh life and vigour.
We may as well wait, perhaps, till the circumstance occurs before we discuss the discretion of his behaviour thereupon.
If _he_ wishes to avoid seeing _me_, he must go.
"This is wholly unexpected.
Miss Bennet, I insist on being satisfied.
"Oh!"
Elizabeth walked in quest of the only face whose features would be known to her.
Her dirty petticoat quite escaped my notice."
During their walk, it was resolved that Mr. Bennet's consent should be asked in the course of the evening.
"From Mr. Collins!
Three daughters married!
it is of no consequence.
Mr. Hurst and Mr. Bingley were at piquet, and Mrs. Hurst was observing their game.
An express came at twelve last night, just as we were all gone to bed, from Colonel Forster, to inform us that she was gone off to Scotland with one of his officers; to own the truth, with Wickham!
He knows where we live.
While they were dressing, he came two or three times to their different doors, to recommend their being quick, as Lady Catherine very much objected to be kept waiting for her dinner.
It must have been a most agreeable surprise to Mr. Bingley to see you all after him so soon; for, if I recollect right, he went but the day before.
I have heard you mention them with consideration these last twenty years at least."
"He must be an oddity, I think," said she.
Jane went to him instantly, kissed him, and thanked him for his goodness.
He could not speak a word for full ten minutes.
"Care of him!
I shall walk to Meryton to-morrow to hear more about it, and to ask when Mr. Denny comes back from town."
_He_ shall be mercenary, and _she_ shall be foolish."
He must go somewhere, but he did not know where, and he knew he should have nothing to live on.
A resemblance in good humour and good spirits had recommended her and Lydia to each other, and out of their _three_ months' acquaintance they had been intimate _two_.
Supposing him to be attached to me, would my refusing to accept his hand make him wish to bestow it on his cousin?
She was still very poorly, and Elizabeth would not quit her at all, till late in the evening, when she had the comfort of seeing her sleep, and when it seemed to her rather right than pleasant that she should go downstairs herself.
Compliments always take _you_ by surprise, and _me_ never.
I was afraid they might not; and we overtook William Goulding in his curricle, so I was determined he should know it, and so I let down the side-glass next to him, and took off my glove, and let my hand just rest upon the window frame, so that he might see the ring, and then I bowed and smiled like anything."
It would have suited me in every respect."
He merely added that he should not write again till he had something of importance to mention."
I entreat you not to suppose that I moved this way in order to beg for a partner."
"I never can be thankful, Mr. Bennet, for anything about the entail.
My father supported him at school, and afterwards at Cambridge--most important assistance, as his own father, always poor from the extravagance of his wife, would have been unable to give him a gentleman's education.
She is a very headstrong, foolish girl, and does not know her own interest but I will _make_ her know it."
"It is fortunate, then, that they fall to my lot instead of yours."
From their infancy, they have been intended for each other.
But so they always are.
If a woman conceals her affection with the same skill from the object of it, she may lose the opportunity of fixing him; and it will then be but poor consolation to believe the world equally in the dark.
I have no such injuries to resent.
Recovering himself, however, shortly, he turned to his partner, and said, "Sir William's interruption has made me forget what we were talking of."
The faces of both, however, were tolerably calm; and no change was visible in either, except that the loss of her favourite sister, or the anger which she had herself incurred in this business, had given more of fretfulness than usual to the accents of Kitty.
But you have chosen your fault well.
It had given him a disgust to his business, and to his residence in a small market town; and, in quitting them both, he had removed with his family to a house about a mile from Meryton, denominated from that period Lucas Lodge, where he could think with pleasure of his own importance, and, unshackled by business, occupy himself solely in being civil to all the world.
Her pale face and impetuous manner made him start, and before he could recover himself to speak, she, in whose mind every idea was superseded by Lydia's situation, hastily exclaimed, "I beg your pardon, but I must leave you.
The next variation which their visit afforded was produced by the entrance of servants with cold meat, cake, and a variety of all the finest fruits in season; but this did not take place till after many a significant look and smile from Mrs. Annesley to Miss Darcy had been given, to remind her of her post.
One cannot know what a man really is by the end of a fortnight.
It must be his own doing.
My father bears it better.
Elizabeth impatiently caught it from his hand.
Elizabeth looked at her sister with incredulous solicitude, but said nothing.
Anne would have been a delightful performer, had her health allowed her to learn."
And _that_ made the men suspect something, and then they soon found out what was the matter."
The Gardiners stayed only one night at Longbourn, and set off the next morning with Elizabeth in pursuit of novelty and amusement.
She performed her part indeed without much graciousness, but Mrs. Bennet was satisfied, and soon afterwards ordered her carriage.
"It taught me to hope," said he, "as I had scarcely ever allowed myself to hope before.
Mrs. Hurst sang with her sister, and while they were thus employed, Elizabeth could not help observing, as she turned over some music-books that lay on the instrument, how frequently Mr. Darcy's eyes were fixed on her.
A most welcome negative followed the last question--and her alarms now being removed, she was at leisure to feel a great deal of curiosity to see the house herself; and when the subject was revived the next morning, and she was again applied to, could readily answer, and with a proper air of indifference, that she had not really any dislike to the scheme.
At present I am not in love with Mr. Wickham; no, I certainly am not.
Elizabeth read on:  "I have seen them both.
"He only told me what I have now told you."
I am not afraid of being overpowered by the impression.
Elizabeth disdained the appearance of noticing this civil reflection, but its meaning did not escape, nor was it likely to conciliate her.
I knew enough of your disposition to be certain that, had you been absolutely, irrevocably decided against me, you would have acknowledged it to Lady Catherine, frankly and openly."
But so they always are.
It was at Sir William Lucas's, where a large party were assembled.
This letter gave Elizabeth some pain; but her spirits returned as she considered that Jane would no longer be duped, by the sister at least.
Jane was anxious that no difference should be perceived in her at all, and was really persuaded that she talked as much as ever.
It was very strange that he should come to Longbourn instead of to Lucas Lodge; it was also very inconvenient and exceedingly troublesome.
Imprudence or thoughtlessness in money matters would be unpardonable in me."
He arranges the business just as he pleases."
"I am trying to make it out."
Well, now let us be quite comfortable and snug, and talk and laugh all the way home.
He does not want abilities.
I do not deserve it.
When they get to our age, I dare say they will not think about officers any more than we do.
I would advise you merely to put on whatever of your clothes is superior to the rest--there is no occasion for anything more.
"There has been many a one, I fancy, overcome in the same way.
In town I believe he chiefly lived, but his studying the law was a mere pretence, and being now free from all restraint, his life was a life of idleness and dissipation.
Now and then they were honoured with a call from her ladyship, and nothing escaped her observation that was passing in the room during these visits.
But gracious me!
"Oh!
How shall we punish him for such a speech?"
Their visit did not continue long after the question and answer above mentioned; and while Mr. Darcy was attending them to their carriage Miss Bingley was venting her feelings in criticisms on Elizabeth's person, behaviour, and dress.
And so saying, he turned back with them, and walked towards the house.
He is so excessively handsome!
Thank Heaven!
These are conditions which, considering everything, I had no hesitation in complying with, as far as I thought myself privileged, for you.
The one missent must first be attended to; it had been written five days ago.
Is this your gratitude for my attentions to you last spring?
"So much the better.
Mrs. Wickham!
Nobody can tell what I suffer!
With many compliments to them, and much self-gratulation on the prospect of a connection between the houses, he unfolded the matter--to an audience not merely wondering, but incredulous; for Mrs. Bennet, with more perseverance than politeness, protested he must be entirely mistaken; and Lydia, always unguarded and often uncivil, boisterously exclaimed:  "Good Lord!
You would have been less amiable in my eyes had there _not_ been this little unwillingness; but allow me to assure you, that I have your respected mother's permission for this address.
"My dear," replied her husband, "I have two small favours to request.
In his present behaviour to herself, moreover, she had a fresh source of displeasure, for the inclination he soon testified of renewing those intentions which had marked the early part of their acquaintance could only serve, after what had since passed, to provoke her.
"I will make no promise of the kind."
Young ladies have great penetration in such matters as these; but I think I may defy even _your_ sagacity, to discover the name of your admirer.
Mr. Collins received and returned these felicitations with equal pleasure, and then proceeded to relate the particulars of their interview, with the result of which he trusted he had every reason to be satisfied, since the refusal which his cousin had steadfastly given him would naturally flow from her bashful modesty and the genuine delicacy of her character.
Elizabeth excused herself as well as she could; said that she had liked him better when they had met in Kent than before, and that she had never seen him so pleasant as this morning.
It is a relation which you tell me is to give you great surprise; I hope at least it will not afford you any displeasure.
She liked him too little to care for his approbation.
"There is a gentleman with him, mamma," said Kitty; "who can it be?"
About the court, such instances of elegant breeding are not uncommon."
"Not at all."
When at length they arose to take leave, Mrs. Bennet was most pressingly civil in her hope of seeing the whole family soon at Longbourn, and addressed herself especially to Mr. Bingley, to assure him how happy he would make them by eating a family dinner with them at any time, without the ceremony of a formal invitation.
"Oh!
Here was knowledge in which no one could partake; and she was sensible that nothing less than a perfect understanding between the parties could justify her in throwing off this last encumbrance of mystery.
It is on your account that he has been so frequently invited this week.
Elizabeth, feeling it incumbent on her to relieve him from so unpleasant a situation, now put herself forward to confirm his account, by mentioning her prior knowledge of it from Charlotte herself; and endeavoured to put a stop to the exclamations of her mother and sisters by the earnestness of her congratulations to Sir William, in which she was readily joined by Jane, and by making a variety of remarks on the happiness that might be expected from the match, the excellent character of Mr. Collins, and the convenient distance of Hunsford from London.
These are the kind of little things which please her ladyship, and it is a sort of attention which I conceive myself peculiarly bound to pay."
The two youngest of the family, Catherine and Lydia, were particularly frequent in these attentions; their minds were more vacant than their sisters', and when nothing better offered, a walk to Meryton was necessary to amuse their morning hours and furnish conversation for the evening; and however bare of news the country in general might be, they always contrived to learn some from their aunt.
Mrs. Bennet's eyes sparkled with pleasure, and she was eagerly calling out, while her daughter read,  "Well, Jane, who is it from?
"Oh!
Then, perceiving in Elizabeth no inclination of replying, she added, "Unhappy as the event must be for Lydia, we may draw from it this useful lesson: that loss of virtue in a female is irretrievable; that one false step involves her in endless ruin; that her reputation is no less brittle than it is beautiful; and that she cannot be too much guarded in her behaviour towards the undeserving of the other sex."
Arguments are too much like disputes.
If he no longer cares for me, why silent?
"And this is your real opinion!
Lady Catherine seemed quite astonished at not receiving a direct answer; and Elizabeth suspected herself to be the first creature who had ever dared to trifle with so much dignified impertinence.
Miss Bennet was the only creature who could suppose there might be any extenuating circumstances in the case, unknown to the society of Hertfordshire; her mild and steady candour always pleaded for allowances, and urged the possibility of mistakes--but by everybody else Mr. Darcy was condemned as the worst of men.
"I am, dear sir, etc., etc."
He did not judge your father to be a person whom he could so properly consult as your uncle, and therefore readily postponed seeing him till after the departure of the former.
"This is an evening of wonders, indeed!
I will read it to you:"  "When my brother left us yesterday, he imagined that the business which took him to London might be concluded in three or four days; but as we are certain it cannot be so, and at the same time convinced that when Charles gets to town he will be in no hurry to leave it again, we have determined on following him thither, that he may not be obliged to spend his vacant hours in a comfortless hotel.
Your sweetness and disinterestedness are really angelic; I do not know what to say to you.
Such formidable accounts of her ladyship, and her manner of living, quite frightened Maria Lucas who had been little used to company, and she looked forward to her introduction at Rosings with as much apprehension as her father had done to his presentation at St. James's.
"What is there of good to be expected?"
"Indeed, Mr. Bennet," said she, "it is very hard to think that Charlotte Lucas should ever be mistress of this house, that I should be forced to make way for _her_, and live to see her take her place in it!"
"And have you answered the letter?"
"You are all kindness, madam; but I believe we must abide by our original plan."
"Well, well, and so Mr. Bingley is coming down, sister," (for Mrs. Phillips first brought her the news).
Elizabeth replied very concisely that she was.
_You_ know him too well to doubt the rest.
"But you forget, mamma," said Elizabeth, "that we shall meet him at the assemblies, and that Mrs. Long promised to introduce him."
But they did pass away, and Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner, with their four children, did at length appear at Longbourn.
repeated Miss Bingley.
She felt it to be the probable consequence of her allusions to Mr. Wickham, and rejoiced in it.
But the clothes, the wedding clothes!
It now first struck her, that _she_ was selected from among her sisters as worthy of being mistress of Hunsford Parsonage, and of assisting to form a quadrille table at Rosings, in the absence of more eligible visitors.
When at length they arose to take leave, Mrs. Bennet was most pressingly civil in her hope of seeing the whole family soon at Longbourn, and addressed herself especially to Mr. Bingley, to assure him how happy he would make them by eating a family dinner with them at any time, without the ceremony of a formal invitation.
Oh, that I knew how it was!"
They were able to love each other even as well as they intended.
Elizabeth took the letter from his writing-table, and they went up stairs together.
"I have heard much of your master's fine person," said Mrs. Gardiner, looking at the picture; "it is a handsome face.
Mr. Gardiner expressed a wish of going round the whole park, but feared it might be beyond a walk.
On the stairs were a troop of little boys and girls, whose eagerness for their cousin's appearance would not allow them to wait in the drawing-room, and whose shyness, as they had not seen her for a twelvemonth, prevented their coming lower.
There was no want of discourse.
He took leave of his relations at Longbourn with as much solemnity as before; wished his fair cousins health and happiness again, and promised their father another letter of thanks.
* * * * *  In the evening, soon after Mr. Bennet withdrew to the library, she saw Mr. Darcy rise also and follow him, and her agitation on seeing it was extreme.
Make haste, make haste.
He _spoke_ of apprehension and anxiety, but his countenance expressed real security.
The apothecary came, and having examined his patient, said, as might be supposed, that she had caught a violent cold, and that they must endeavour to get the better of it; advised her to return to bed, and promised her some draughts.
His debts are to be paid, amounting, I believe, to considerably more than a thousand pounds, another thousand in addition to her own settled upon _her_, and his commission purchased.
Very frequently were they reproached for this insensibility by Kitty and Lydia, whose own misery was extreme, and who could not comprehend such hard-heartedness in any of the family.
"How was it possible that such an idea should enter our brains?
They had been walking about the place with some of their new friends, and were just returning to the inn to dress themselves for dining with the same family, when the sound of a carriage drew them to a window, and they saw a gentleman and a lady in a curricle driving up the street.
But I will no longer importune my young cousin."
"I must now mention a circumstance which I would wish to forget myself, and which no obligation less than the present should induce me to unfold to any human being.
But we considered it, we talked of it as impossible.
The dinner was as well dressed as any I ever saw.
"But if I do not take your likeness now, I may never have another opportunity."
They seemed each of them to have the happiest memories in the world.
Lydia has no brothers to step forward; and he might imagine, from my father's behaviour, from his indolence and the little attention he has ever seemed to give to what was going forward in his family, that _he_ would do as little, and think as little about it, as any father could do, in such a matter."
Darcy_, you see, is the man!
The expression of his face changed gradually from indignant contempt to a composed and steady gravity.
Elizabeth reserved to herself the application for her mother's.
But I am particularly attached to these young men, and know them to be so much attached to me!
I remember the time when I liked a red coat myself very well--and, indeed, so I do still at my heart; and if a smart young colonel, with five or six thousand a year, should want one of my girls I shall not say nay to him; and I thought Colonel Forster looked very becoming the other night at Sir William's in his regimentals."
My conscience told me that I deserved no extraordinary politeness, and I confess that I did not expect to receive _more_ than my due."
Only think what a miserable summer else we shall have!"
The effect was immediate.
Young ladies have great penetration in such matters as these; but I think I may defy even _your_ sagacity, to discover the name of your admirer.
"Certainly not--at first.
There was no one, therefore, who could be pointed out as likely to give any news of him.
He had been some days in town, before he was able to discover them; but he had something to direct his search, which was more than _we_ had; and the consciousness of this was another reason for his resolving to follow us.
Elizabeth was not surprised at it, as Jane had written the direction remarkably ill.
only think!
"And you saw him frequently?"
Where is your sash, my dear?"
said Miss Bingley; "will she be as tall as I am?"
"What an excellent father you have, girls!"
What a meeting for her, when she first sees my aunt!"
"Of whom does Jane ever think ill?
"Yes--if Darcy does not put it off again.
Then addressing her daughter, "Oh!
The attention of the younger ones was then no longer to be gained by him.
"There can be no doubt of that.
You both did as much as you could in planning the marriage.
I shall not be able to keep you--and so I warn you.
You shall not, for the sake of one individual, change the meaning of principle and integrity, nor endeavour to persuade yourself or me, that selfishness is prudence, and insensibility of danger security for happiness."
"What an excellent father you have, girls!"
The acknowledged lovers talked and laughed, the unacknowledged were silent.
I know your disposition, Lizzy.
He had never before supposed that, could Wickham be prevailed on to marry his daughter, it would be done with so little inconvenience to himself as by the present arrangement.
Are you going much farther?"
The possibility of Mr. Collins's fancying himself in love with her friend had once occurred to Elizabeth within the last day or two; but that Charlotte could encourage him seemed almost as far from possibility as she could encourage him herself, and her astonishment was consequently so great as to overcome at first the bounds of decorum, and she could not help crying out:  "Engaged to Mr. Collins!
He then handed her in, Maria followed, and the door was on the point of being closed, when he suddenly reminded them, with some consternation, that they had hitherto forgotten to leave any message for the ladies at Rosings.
If there _were_ but such another man for you!"
His sister was less delicate, and directed her eyes towards Mr. Darcy with a very expressive smile.
This gallantry was not much to the taste of some of his hearers; but Mrs. Bennet, who quarreled with no compliments, answered most readily.
In a few minutes she was joined by Bingley, whose conference with her father had been short and to the purpose.
She is grown so brown and coarse!
I cannot acquit him of that duty; nor could I think well of the man who should omit an occasion of testifying his respect towards anybody connected with the family."
"I honour your circumspection.
Can there be any other opinion on the subject?"
"Is this a hint to me, Lizzy," said her father, "to send for the horses?"
Nothing less than the complaisance of a courtier could have borne without anger such treatment; but Sir William's good breeding carried him through it all; and though he begged leave to be positive as to the truth of his information, he listened to all their impertinence with the most forbearing courtesy.
--My mind, however, is now made up on the subject, for having received ordination at Easter, I have been so fortunate as to be distinguished by the patronage of the Right Honourable Lady Catherine de Bourgh, widow of Sir Lewis de Bourgh, whose bounty and beneficence has preferred me to the valuable rectory of this parish, where it shall be my earnest endeavour to demean myself with grateful respect towards her ladyship, and be ever ready to perform those rites and ceremonies which are instituted by the Church of England.
What a triumph for him, as she often thought, could he know that the proposals which she had proudly spurned only four months ago, would now have been most gladly and gratefully received!
_they_ will take care not to outrun their income.
I do not mean, however, to assert that we can be justified in devoting too much of our time to music, for there are certainly other things to be attended to.
If I wished to think slightingly of anybody's children, it should not be of my own, however."
I did for you.
At length, quite exhausted by the attempt to be amused with her own book, which she had only chosen because it was the second volume of his, she gave a great yawn and said, "How pleasant it is to spend an evening in this way!
Well!
Poor Charlotte!
I must conclude, for I cannot be long from my poor mother.
She had fully proposed being engaged by Mr. Wickham for those very dances; and to have Mr. Collins instead!
They owed the restoration of Lydia, her character, every thing, to him.
Mr. Bennet's emotions were much more tranquil on the occasion, and such as he did experience he pronounced to be of a most agreeable sort; for it gratified him, he said, to discover that Charlotte Lucas, whom he had been used to think tolerably sensible, was as foolish as his wife, and more foolish than his daughter!
I cannot acquit him of that duty; nor could I think well of the man who should omit an occasion of testifying his respect towards anybody connected with the family."
"I beg your pardon; one knows exactly what to think."
"With three younger sisters grown up," replied Elizabeth, smiling, "your ladyship can hardly expect me to own it."
"While Mary is adjusting her ideas," he continued, "let us return to Mr.
Miss Bingley offered her the carriage, and she only wanted a little pressing to accept it, when Jane testified such concern in parting with her, that Miss Bingley was obliged to convert the offer of the chaise to an invitation to remain at Netherfield for the present.
You will not find him more favourably spoken of by anyone."
He had been some days in town, before he was able to discover them; but he had something to direct his search, which was more than _we_ had; and the consciousness of this was another reason for his resolving to follow us.
Mrs. Gardiner went away in all the perplexity about Elizabeth and her Derbyshire friend that had attended her from that part of the world.
Mr. Darcy looked just as he had been used to look in Hertfordshire--paid his compliments, with his usual reserve, to Mrs. Collins, and whatever might be his feelings toward her friend, met her with every appearance of composure.
Conjectures as to the meaning of it, rapid and wild, hurried into her brain; but she was satisfied with none.
The first mentioned was, that, regardless of the sentiments of either, I had detached Mr. Bingley from your sister, and the other, that I had, in defiance of various claims, in defiance of honour and humanity, ruined the immediate prosperity and blasted the prospects of Mr. Wickham.
"I never saw anyone so shocked.
My father bears it better.
There will not be the smallest occasion for your coming to town again; therefore stay quiet at Longbourn, and depend on my diligence and care.
Elizabeth made no answer, and took her place in the set, amazed at the dignity to which she was arrived in being allowed to stand opposite to Mr. Darcy, and reading in her neighbours' looks, their equal amazement in beholding it.
On the following Monday, Mrs. Bennet had the pleasure of receiving her brother and his wife, who came as usual to spend the Christmas at Longbourn.
I hope there was.
He was very fond of them."
On Tuesday there was a large party assembled at Longbourn; and the two who were most anxiously expected, to the credit of their punctuality as sportsmen, were in very good time.
I appeal to Mr. Darcy:--but let me not interrupt you, sir.
In his library he had been always sure of leisure and tranquillity; and though prepared, as he told Elizabeth, to meet with folly and conceit in every other room of the house, he was used to be free from them there; his civility, therefore, was most prompt in inviting Mr. Collins to join his daughters in their walk; and Mr. Collins, being in fact much better fitted for a walker than a reader, was extremely pleased to close his large book, and go.
They could have been understood only by her mother, who might have felt nearly the same.
However, he wrote some verses on her, and very pretty they were."
The situation of affairs in the Longbourn family could not be long a secret.
At that moment, she cared for no other.
* * * * *  In the evening, soon after Mr. Bennet withdrew to the library, she saw Mr. Darcy rise also and follow him, and her agitation on seeing it was extreme.
The rooms were lofty and handsome, and their furniture suitable to the fortune of its proprietor; but Elizabeth saw, with admiration of his taste, that it was neither gaudy nor uselessly fine; with less of splendour, and more real elegance, than the furniture of Rosings.
The wedding took place; the bride and bridegroom set off for Kent from the church door, and everybody had as much to say, or to hear, on the subject as usual.
Those who do not complain are never pitied."
A little time, therefore--I shall certainly try to get the better."
Mrs. Bennet, through the assistance of servants, contrived to have the earliest tidings of it, that the period of anxiety and fretfulness on her side might be as long as it could.
Her ease and good spirits increased.
He has also _brotherly_ pride, which, with _some_ brotherly affection, makes him a very kind and careful guardian of his sister, and you will hear him generally cried up as the most attentive and best of brothers."
This is your final resolve!
At one time she had almost resolved on applying to him, but the idea was checked by the awkwardness of the application, and at length wholly banished by the conviction that Mr. Darcy would never have hazarded such a proposal, if he had not been well assured of his cousin's corroboration.
Do not you, Darcy?"
Could he expect that her friends would not step forward?
Do not you, Darcy?"
You were disgusted with the women who were always speaking, and looking, and thinking for _your_ approbation alone.
What advantage can it be for you to offend Mr. Darcy?
"Your friend performs delightfully," he continued after a pause, on seeing Bingley join the group; "and I doubt not that you are an adept in the science yourself, Mr.
I am ashamed of you!
Be that as it may, she saw him go with regret; and in this early example of what Lydia's infamy must produce, found additional anguish as she reflected on that wretched business.
"She did not choose it," said her daughter, "she would go."
He had, to be sure, done much.
She was then proceeding to all the particulars of calico, muslin, and cambric, and would shortly have dictated some very plentiful orders, had not Jane, though with some difficulty, persuaded her to wait till her father was at leisure to be consulted.
But really, ma'am, I think it would be very hard upon younger sisters, that they should not have their share of society and amusement, because the elder may not have the means or inclination to marry early.
Mrs. Bennet could not give her consent or speak her approbation in terms warm enough to satisfy her feelings, though she talked to Bingley of nothing else for half an hour; and when Mr. Bennet joined them at supper, his voice and manner plainly showed how really happy he was.
He can be a conversible companion if he thinks it worth his while.
It is an advantage to have it so far from this part of the kingdom.
Have you never happened to see her there?"
"Lizzy," said he, "I was going to look for you; come into my room."
"I cannot give you credit for any philosophy of the kind.
Five thousand pounds was settled by marriage articles on Mrs. Bennet and the children.
"You are rather disposed to call his interference officious?"
He should be particularly happy at any time, etc.
Mrs. Wickham!
You have delighted us long enough.
"No--I do not know that you were wrong in saying what you did."
You are charmingly grouped, and appear to uncommon advantage.
We are persuaded that he has pledged himself to assist Mr. Wickham with money."
How are they even to be discovered?
Her colour changed, and she said no more.
He bore with philosophy the conviction that Elizabeth must now become acquainted with whatever of his ingratitude and falsehood had before been unknown to her; and in spite of every thing, was not wholly without hope that Darcy might yet be prevailed on to make his fortune.
There can be no occasion for your going so soon.
The fishing scheme had been renewed the day before, and a positive engagement made of his meeting some of the gentlemen at Pemberley before noon.
There is in everything a most remarkable resemblance of character and ideas between us.
He was then, he said, on his way to Longbourn on purpose to inquire after her.
Do your sisters play and sing?"
That such a consequence as _this_ could ensue, you may easily believe, was far enough from my thoughts."
But Lady Catherine seemed gratified by their excessive admiration, and gave most gracious smiles, especially when any dish on the table proved a novelty to them.
Elizabeth awoke the next morning to the same thoughts and meditations which had at length closed her eyes.
I scarcely know anyone who cannot do all this, and I am sure I never heard a young lady spoken of for the first time, without being informed that she was very accomplished."
I shall then give over every expectation, every wish of his constancy.
"Gracechurch street, Sept. 6.
This will never do."
The Bennets were engaged to dine with the Lucases and again during the chief of the day was Miss Lucas so kind as to listen to Mr. Collins.
In comparing her recollection of Pemberley with the minute description which Wickham could give, and in bestowing her tribute of praise on the character of its late possessor, she was delighting both him and herself.
My character has ever been celebrated for its sincerity and frankness, and in a cause of such moment as this, I shall certainly not depart from it.
"My father is gone to London, and Jane has written to beg my uncle's immediate assistance; and we shall be off, I hope, in half-an-hour.
The word is applied to many a woman who deserves it no otherwise than by netting a purse or covering a screen.
Elizabeth was too much embarrassed to say a word.
I was angry perhaps at first, but my anger soon began to take a proper direction."
I, who have valued myself on my abilities!
Mrs. Bennet was perfectly satisfied, and quitted the house under the delightful persuasion that, allowing for the necessary preparations of settlements, new carriages, and wedding clothes, she should undoubtedly see her daughter settled at Netherfield in the course of three or four months.
Wickham is safe."
She was proceeding directly to her favourite walk, when the recollection of Mr. Darcy's sometimes coming there stopped her, and instead of entering the park, she turned up the lane, which led farther from the turnpike-road.
It is really too distressing.
"Will you give me leave to defer your raptures till I write again?
All Meryton seemed striving to blacken the man who, but three months before, had been almost an angel of light.
No, no, let me shift for myself; and, perhaps, if I have very good luck, I may meet with another Mr. Collins in time."
"As I did the other day," said Elizabeth with a conscious smile: "very true, it will be wise in me to refrain from _that_.
Her pale face and impetuous manner made him start, and before he could recover himself to speak, she, in whose mind every idea was superseded by Lydia's situation, hastily exclaimed, "I beg your pardon, but I must leave you.
Elizabeth will soon be the wife of Mr. Darcy.
Bingley urged Mr. Jones being sent for immediately; while his sisters, convinced that no country advice could be of any service, recommended an express to town for one of the most eminent physicians.
He now seated himself by her, and talked so agreeably of Kent and Hertfordshire, of travelling and staying at home, of new books and music, that Elizabeth had never been half so well entertained in that room before; and they conversed with so much spirit and flow, as to draw the attention of Lady Catherine herself, as well as of Mr. Darcy.
The conversation soon turned upon fishing; and she heard Mr. Darcy invite him, with the greatest civility, to fish there as often as he chose while he continued in the neighbourhood, offering at the same time to supply him with fishing tackle, and pointing out those parts of the stream where there was usually most sport.
"How abominable!
The tete-a-tete surprised them.
"And quite alone?
Another entreaty that she would be serious, however, produced the desired effect; and she soon satisfied Jane by her solemn assurances of attachment.
"Did you go by the village of Kympton?"
Most earnestly did she then entreaty him to lose no more time before he wrote.
I am sure Wickham would like a place at court very much, and I do not think we shall have quite money enough to live upon without some help.
Elizabeth quietly answered "Undoubtedly;" and after an awkward pause, they returned to the rest of the family.
To such perseverance in wilful self-deception Elizabeth would make no reply, and immediately and in silence withdrew; determined, if he persisted in considering her repeated refusals as flattering encouragement, to apply to her father, whose negative might be uttered in such a manner as to be decisive, and whose behaviour at least could not be mistaken for the affectation and coquetry of an elegant female.
My father supported him at school, and afterwards at Cambridge--most important assistance, as his own father, always poor from the extravagance of his wife, would have been unable to give him a gentleman's education.
Mr. Collins, meanwhile, was meditating in solitude on what had passed.
Though he had detected with a critical eye more than one failure of perfect symmetry in her form, he was forced to acknowledge her figure to be light and pleasing; and in spite of his asserting that her manners were not those of the fashionable world, he was caught by their easy playfulness.
To know that she had the power of revealing what would so exceedingly astonish Jane, and must, at the same time, so highly gratify whatever of her own vanity she had not yet been able to reason away, was such a temptation to openness as nothing could have conquered but the state of indecision in which she remained as to the extent of what she should communicate; and her fear, if she once entered on the subject, of being hurried into repeating something of Bingley which might only grieve her sister further.
She perfectly remembered everything that had passed in conversation between Wickham and herself, in their first evening at Mr. Phillips's.
She saw the indelicacy of putting himself forward as he had done, and the inconsistency of his professions with his conduct.
My conscience told me that I deserved no extraordinary politeness, and I confess that I did not expect to receive _more_ than my due."
Elizabeth was surprised, but agreed to it immediately.
"I have been thinking it over again, Elizabeth," said her uncle, as they drove from the town; "and really, upon serious consideration, I am much more inclined than I was to judge as your eldest sister does on the matter.
"I do not see what right Mr. Darcy had to decide on the propriety of his friend's inclination, or why, upon his own judgement alone, he was to determine and direct in what manner his friend was to be happy.
Mrs. Bennet could not give her consent or speak her approbation in terms warm enough to satisfy her feelings, though she talked to Bingley of nothing else for half an hour; and when Mr. Bennet joined them at supper, his voice and manner plainly showed how really happy he was.
"We have dined nine times at Rosings, besides drinking tea there twice!
But, luckily, he came back again in ten minutes' time, and then we all set out.
My youngest of all is lately married, and my eldest is somewhere about the grounds, walking with a young man who, I believe, will soon become a part of the family."
Elizabeth was not comfortable; that was impossible; but she was flattered and pleased.
Five daughters brought up at home without a governess!
From what she had said of her resolution to prevent their marriage, it occurred to Elizabeth that she must meditate an application to her nephew; and how _he_ might take a similar representation of the evils attached to a connection with her, she dared not pronounce.
Lydia, my love, though you _are_ the youngest, I dare say Mr. Bingley will dance with you at the next ball."
"Oh!
To Mr. Bennet's acknowledgments he briefly replied, with assurance of his eagerness to promote the welfare of any of his family; and concluded with entreaties that the subject might never be mentioned to him again.
Darcy was not of a disposition in which happiness overflows in mirth; and Elizabeth, agitated and confused, rather _knew_ that she was happy than _felt_ herself to be so; for, besides the immediate embarrassment, there were other evils before her.
Do let the portraits of your uncle and aunt Phillips be placed in the gallery at Pemberley.
Did he know of their intending to go off?
To these highflown expressions Elizabeth listened with all the insensibility of distrust; and though the suddenness of their removal surprised her, she saw nothing in it really to lament; it was not to be supposed that their absence from Netherfield would prevent Mr. Bingley's being there; and as to the loss of their society, she was persuaded that Jane must cease to regard it, in the enjoyment of his.
With no greater events than these in the Longbourn family, and otherwise diversified by little beyond the walks to Meryton, sometimes dirty and sometimes cold, did January and February pass away.
I cannot catch their tone of conversation, or appear interested in their concerns, as I often see done."
"We will be down as soon as we can," said Jane; "but I dare say Kitty is forwarder than either of us, for she went up stairs half an hour ago."
Mr. Darcy has not authorised me to make his communication public.
I cannot understand it.
What, all five out at once?
Lydia's voice was heard in the vestibule; the door was thrown open, and she ran into the room.
To convince him, therefore, that he had deceived himself, was no very difficult point.
What a good joke it will be!
One may be continually abusive without saying anything just; but one cannot always be laughing at a man without now and then stumbling on something witty."
I know not in what manner, under what form of falsehood he had imposed on you; but his success is not perhaps to be wondered at.
Jane instantly gave a look at Elizabeth which spoke her distress at such premeditation, and her entreaty that _she_ would not give in to it.
Lady Catherine rose also, and they turned back.
Kitty, who took all these threats in a serious light, began to cry.
It was a subject, in short, on which reflection would be long indulged, and must be unavailing.
She was a woman of mean understanding, little information, and uncertain temper.
To be sure, you knew no actual good of me--but nobody thinks of _that_ when they fall in love."
But I know the foundation is unjust.
Towards _him_ I have been kinder than towards myself."
From Elizabeth's thoughts it was never absent.
They were not the only objects of Mr. Collins's admiration.
They stood a little aloof while he was talking to their niece, who, astonished and confused, scarcely dared lift her eyes to his face, and knew not what answer she returned to his civil inquiries after her family.
The rapture of Lydia on this occasion, her adoration of Mrs. Forster, the delight of Mrs. Bennet, and the mortification of Kitty, are scarcely to be described.
But I hope you will not mind it: it is all for Jane's sake, you know; and there is no occasion for talking to him, except just now and then.
He placed himself by her.
He stood by her, however, for some minutes, in silence; and, at last, on the young lady's whispering to Elizabeth again, he walked away.
I can recall nothing worse.
There was novelty in the scheme, and as, with such a mother and such uncompanionable sisters, home could not be faultless, a little change was not unwelcome for its own sake.
He seemed astonished too on finding her alone, and apologised for his intrusion by letting her know that he had understood all the ladies were to be within.
"Speak to Lizzy about it yourself.
"That is exactly what I should have supposed of you," said Elizabeth.
"What will be his surprise," thought she, "when he knows who they are?
"Colonel Forster did own that he had often suspected some partiality, especially on Lydia's side, but nothing to give him any alarm.
Of what he has _particularly_ accused me I am ignorant; but of the truth of what I shall relate, I can summon more than one witness of undoubted veracity.
On opening the door, she perceived her sister and Bingley standing together over the hearth, as if engaged in earnest conversation; and had this led to no suspicion, the faces of both, as they hastily turned round and moved away from each other, would have told it all.
"Well," cried Elizabeth, "have it as you choose.
"Poor Wickham!
He meant to provide for me amply, and thought he had done it; but when the living fell, it was given elsewhere."
On Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner's coming up they were all pressed to go into the house and take some refreshment; but this was declined, and they parted on each side with utmost politeness.
"Upon my word, I say no more _here_ than I might say in any house in the neighbourhood, except Netherfield.
"And I wish my collection were larger for your benefit and my own credit; but I am an idle fellow, and though I have not many, I have more than I ever looked into."
I do not trust my own partiality.
Lydia left a few lines for his wife, informing her of their intention.
In the intervals of her discourse with Mrs. Collins, she addressed a variety of questions to Maria and Elizabeth, but especially to the latter, of whose connections she knew the least, and who she observed to Mrs. Collins was a very genteel, pretty kind of girl.
"What is there of good to be expected?"
Elizabeth would not oppose such an injunction--and a moment's consideration making her also sensible that it would be wisest to get it over as soon and as quietly as possible, she sat down again and tried to conceal, by incessant employment the feelings which were divided between distress and diversion.
The extravagance and general profligacy which he scrupled not to lay at Mr. Wickham's charge, exceedingly shocked her; the more so, as she could bring no proof of its injustice.
"I am not going to run away, papa," said Kitty fretfully.
There could not exist in the world _two_ men over whom Mr. Darcy could have such boundless influence.
"Your conjecture is totally wrong, I assure you.
"If one could but go to Brighton!"
Miss Bennet had slept ill, and though up, was very feverish, and not well enough to leave her room.
How could I be so silly as to wish it!
Mrs. Bennet, all amazement, though flattered by having a guest of such high importance, received her with the utmost politeness.
She was now, on being settled at home, at leisure to observe the real state of her sister's spirits.
Her disappointment in Charlotte made her turn with fonder regard to her sister, of whose rectitude and delicacy she was sure her opinion could never be shaken, and for whose happiness she grew daily more anxious, as Bingley had now been gone a week and nothing more was heard of his return.
"Yes, sir; but I do not know when _that_ will be.
Its effect was most extraordinary; for on first hearing it, Mrs. Bennet sat quite still, and unable to utter a syllable.
They were in ---- street.
Elizabeth, feeling it incumbent on her to relieve him from so unpleasant a situation, now put herself forward to confirm his account, by mentioning her prior knowledge of it from Charlotte herself; and endeavoured to put a stop to the exclamations of her mother and sisters by the earnestness of her congratulations to Sir William, in which she was readily joined by Jane, and by making a variety of remarks on the happiness that might be expected from the match, the excellent character of Mr. Collins, and the convenient distance of Hunsford from London.
While settling this point, she was suddenly roused by the sound of the door-bell, and her spirits were a little fluttered by the idea of its being Colonel Fitzwilliam himself, who had once before called late in the evening, and might now come to inquire particularly after her.
Elizabeth instantly read her feelings, and at that moment solicitude for Wickham, resentment against his enemies, and everything else, gave way before the hope of Jane's being in the fairest way for happiness.
Four weeks passed away, and Jane saw nothing of him.
"Mr. Darcy asked him why he had not married your sister at once.
With proper civilities the ladies then withdrew; all of them equally surprised that he meditated a quick return.
No sentiment of shame gave a damp to her triumph.
The death of your daughter would have been a blessing in comparison of this.
This was his plan of amends--of atonement--for inheriting their father's estate; and he thought it an excellent one, full of eligibility and suitableness, and excessively generous and disinterested on his own part.
She could not bear such suspense; and hastily seizing a sheet of paper, wrote a short letter to her aunt, to request an explanation of what Lydia had dropt, if it were compatible with the secrecy which had been intended.
Lady Lucas could not be insensible of triumph on being able to retort on Mrs. Bennet the comfort of having a daughter well married; and she called at Longbourn rather oftener than usual to say how happy she was, though Mrs. Bennet's sour looks and ill-natured remarks might have been enough to drive happiness away.
It was the second week in May, in which the three young ladies set out together from Gracechurch Street for the town of ----, in Hertfordshire; and, as they drew near the appointed inn where Mr. Bennet's carriage was to meet them, they quickly perceived, in token of the coachman's punctuality, both Kitty and Lydia looking out of a dining-room up stairs.
At length she spoke again.
He has been here this half-hour, and master has had a letter."
Daughters are never of so much consequence to a father.
Jane recollected herself soon, and putting the letter away, tried to join with her usual cheerfulness in the general conversation; but Elizabeth felt an anxiety on the subject which drew off her attention even from Wickham; and no sooner had he and his companion taken leave, than a glance from Jane invited her to follow her up stairs.
"That is the most unforgiving speech," said Elizabeth, "that I ever heard you utter.
Collins!"
But whether she were violently set against the match, or violently delighted with it, it was certain that her manner would be equally ill adapted to do credit to her sense; and she could no more bear that Mr. Darcy should hear the first raptures of her joy, than the first vehemence of her disapprobation.
There is not a bit of fish to be got to-day.
"Your first position is false.
When first he came in, he had spoken to her but little; but every five minutes seemed to be giving her more of his attention.
Here, Sarah, come to Miss Bennet this moment, and help her on with her gown.
She approached and saw the likeness of Mr. Wickham, suspended, amongst several other miniatures, over the mantelpiece.
Colonel Fitzwilliam seemed really glad to see them; anything was a welcome relief to him at Rosings; and Mrs. Collins's pretty friend had moreover caught his fancy very much.
We have not met since the 26th of November, when we were all dancing together at Netherfield."
The particulars I reserve till we meet; it is enough to know they are discovered.
And it is the more to be lamented, because there is reason to suppose as my dear Charlotte informs me, that this licentiousness of behaviour in your daughter has proceeded from a faulty degree of indulgence; though, at the same time, for the consolation of yourself and Mrs. Bennet, I am inclined to think that her own disposition must be naturally bad, or she could not be guilty of such an enormity, at so early an age.
I am so happy!
In his present behaviour to herself, moreover, she had a fresh source of displeasure, for the inclination he soon testified of renewing those intentions which had marked the early part of their acquaintance could only serve, after what had since passed, to provoke her.
And as to my father, I never in my life saw him so affected.
His first object with her, he acknowledged, had been to persuade her to quit her present disgraceful situation, and return to her friends as soon as they could be prevailed on to receive her, offering his assistance, as far as it would go.
Elizabeth immediately began playing again.
"Tell me once for all, are you engaged to him?"
Jane shook her head.
How can it affect them?"
"Take care, Lizzy; that speech savours strongly of disappointment."
"She is a great fool for going away, if she liked him."
The agitation and tears which the subject occasioned, brought on a headache; and it grew so much worse towards the evening, that, added to her unwillingness to see Mr. Darcy, it determined her not to attend her cousins to Rosings, where they were engaged to drink tea.
"Good gracious!"
She danced next with an officer, and had the refreshment of talking of Wickham, and of hearing that he was universally liked.
But with such a father and mother, and such low connections, I am afraid there is no chance of it."
My dear Charlotte--impossible!"
This is not the sort of happiness which a man would in general wish to owe to his wife; but where other powers of entertainment are wanting, the true philosopher will derive benefit from such as are given.
His sister was less delicate, and directed her eyes towards Mr. Darcy with a very expressive smile.
Elizabeth was determined; nor did Sir William at all shake her purpose by his attempt at persuasion.
"Yes.
_They_ will never be distressed for money.
But I pity her, because she must feel that she has been acting wrong, and because I am very sure that anxiety for her brother is the cause of it.
Here again I shall give you pain--to what degree you only can tell.
She talked to Elizabeth again and again; coaxed and threatened her by turns.
how unlucky!
But tell me, what did you come down to Netherfield for?
If I may so express it, he has a _right_ to be proud."
Yours, etc.,  "EDW.
But your arts and allurements may, in a moment of infatuation, have made him forget what he owes to himself and to all his family.
I am very, very sorry.
She knew but little of their meeting in Derbyshire, and therefore felt for the awkwardness which must attend her sister, in seeing him almost for the first time after receiving his explanatory letter.
Forgive me; and if you persist in indifference, do not make me your confidante."
They had been walking about the place with some of their new friends, and were just returning to the inn to dress themselves for dining with the same family, when the sound of a carriage drew them to a window, and they saw a gentleman and a lady in a curricle driving up the street.
I do not deserve it.
Jane instantly gave a look at Elizabeth which spoke her distress at such premeditation, and her entreaty that _she_ would not give in to it.
She had always felt that Charlotte's opinion of matrimony was not exactly like her own, but she had not supposed it to be possible that, when called into action, she would have sacrificed every better feeling to worldly advantage.
I only hope they may have half my good luck.
Come, let me see the list of pitiful fellows who have been kept aloof by Lydia's folly."
So much in love as to wish to marry her in spite of all the objections which had made him prevent his friend's marrying her sister, and which must appear at least with equal force in his own case--was almost incredible!
Elizabeth laughed heartily at this picture of herself, and said to Colonel Fitzwilliam, "Your cousin will give you a very pretty notion of me, and teach you not to believe a word I say.
Every idea that had been brought forward by the housekeeper was favourable to his character, and as she stood before the canvas on which he was represented, and fixed his eyes upon herself, she thought of his regard with a deeper sentiment of gratitude than it had ever raised before; she remembered its warmth, and softened its impropriety of expression.
Brighton, and a whole campful of soldiers, to us, who have been overset already by one poor regiment of militia, and the monthly balls of Meryton!"
Lady Lucas was a very good kind of woman, not too clever to be a valuable neighbour to Mrs. Bennet.
Jane listened with astonishment and concern; she knew not how to believe that Mr. Darcy could be so unworthy of Mr. Bingley's regard; and yet, it was not in her nature to question the veracity of a young man of such amiable appearance as Wickham.
"Yours, etc."
Her mind received knowledge which had never before fallen in her way.
"I had once had some thought of fixing in town myself--for I am fond of superior society; but I did not feel quite certain that the air of London would agree with Lady Lucas."
They are descended, on the maternal side, from the same noble line; and, on the father's, from respectable, honourable, and ancient--though untitled--families.
It is settled between us already, that we are to be the happiest couple in the world.
Elizabeth was forced to give into a little falsehood here; for to acknowledge the substance of their conversation was impossible.
She was disturbed by no fear for her felicity, nor humbled by any remembrance of her misconduct.
I guessed as much."
A great deal more passed at the other table.
"What can be the meaning of this?"
Sir William could not have interrupted two people in the room who had less to say for themselves.
Elizabeth excused herself as well as she could; said that she had liked him better when they had met in Kent than before, and that she had never seen him so pleasant as this morning.
said he, as he joined her.
Elizabeth was watchful enough to see it all, but she could see it and write of it without material pain.
Dear Lizzy, only consider what he must have suffered.
But how came you to tell me that he was so disagreeable?"
But when they had withdrawn, he said to her: "Mrs. Bennet, before you take any or all of these houses for your son and daughter, let us come to a right understanding.
It is not the object of this work to give a description of Derbyshire, nor of any of the remarkable places through which their route thither lay; Oxford, Blenheim, Warwick, Kenilworth, Birmingham, etc.
As we went along, Kitty and I drew up the blinds, and pretended there was nobody in the coach; and I should have gone so all the way, if Kitty had not been sick; and when we got to the George, I do think we behaved very handsomely, for we treated the other three with the nicest cold luncheon in the world, and if you would have gone, we would have treated you too.
As for Mary, she was mistress enough of herself to whisper to Elizabeth, with a countenance of grave reflection, soon after they were seated at table:  "This is a most unfortunate affair, and will probably be much talked of.
Then turning to Mr. Bennet, he offered himself as his antagonist at backgammon.
But you know married women have never much time for writing.
The apothecary came, and having examined his patient, said, as might be supposed, that she had caught a violent cold, and that they must endeavour to get the better of it; advised her to return to bed, and promised her some draughts.
Oh!
It appears to me so very unlikely that any young man should form such a design against a girl who is by no means unprotected or friendless, and who was actually staying in his colonel's family, that I am strongly inclined to hope the best.
And you may be certain when I have the honour of seeing her again, I shall speak in the very highest terms of your modesty, economy, and other amiable qualification."
Mr. Collins returned most punctually on Monday fortnight, but his reception at Longbourn was not quite so gracious as it had been on his first introduction.
Adieu!
"They will join me early to-morrow," he continued, "and among them are some who will claim an acquaintance with you--Mr. Bingley and his sisters."
But as Elizabeth could not receive comfort from any such expectation, she made no answer.
The observations of her uncle and aunt now began; and each of them pronounced him to be infinitely superior to anything they had expected.
"What you ask," said Elizabeth, "is no sacrifice on my side; and Mr. Darcy had much better finish his letter."
"Laugh as much as you choose, but you will not laugh me out of my opinion.
Of this she was perfectly unaware; to her he was only the man who made himself agreeable nowhere, and who had not thought her handsome enough to dance with.
The Longbourn party were the last of all the company to depart, and, by a manoeuvre of Mrs. Bennet, had to wait for their carriage a quarter of an hour after everybody else was gone, which gave them time to see how heartily they were wished away by some of the family.
"Oh!
She endeavoured to persuade herself that she did not regret it; but she could no longer be blind to Miss Bingley's inattention.
"Colonel Forster did own that he had often suspected some partiality, especially on Lydia's side, but nothing to give him any alarm.
"No, I believe not."
It had come with a fare from London; and as he thought that the circumstance of a gentleman and lady's removing from one carriage into another might be remarked he meant to make inquiries at Clapham.
"Well, my dear," said he, when she ceased speaking, "I have no more to say.
But we are none of us consistent, and in his behaviour to me there were stronger impulses even than pride."
As it happened that Elizabeth had _much_ rather not, she endeavoured in her answer to put an end to every entreaty and expectation of the kind.
They attacked him in various ways--with barefaced questions, ingenious suppositions, and distant surmises; but he eluded the skill of them all, and they were at last obliged to accept the second-hand intelligence of their neighbour, Lady Lucas.
The time fixed for the beginning of their northern tour was now fast approaching, and a fortnight only was wanting of it, when a letter arrived from Mrs. Gardiner, which at once delayed its commencement and curtailed its extent.
what is the matter?"
But there is one of her sisters sitting down just behind you, who is very pretty, and I dare say very agreeable.
They insist also on my seeing Mr. Jones--therefore do not be alarmed if you should hear of his having been to me--and, excepting a sore throat and headache, there is not much the matter with me.--Yours, etc."
"I admire all my three sons-in-law highly," said he.
Come, Kitty, I want you up stairs."
Can I speak plainer?
Must it be so?"
The hill, crowned with wood, which they had descended, receiving increased abruptness from the distance, was a beautiful object.
Elizabeth could safely say that it was a great happiness where that was the case, and with equal sincerity could add, that she firmly believed and rejoiced in his domestic comforts.
I was not in a humour to wait for any opening of yours.
"To yield readily--easily--to the _persuasion_ of a friend is no merit with you."
Yes, he had no engagement at all for to-morrow; and her invitation was accepted with alacrity.
"Have you anything else to propose for my domestic felicity?"
"It does seem, and it is most shocking indeed," replied Elizabeth, with tears in her eyes, "that a sister's sense of decency and virtue in such a point should admit of doubt.
Not that I think Charlotte so _very_ plain--but then she is our particular friend."
"But you are not entitled to know mine; nor will such behaviour as this, ever induce me to be explicit."
When the ladies returned to the drawing-room, there was little to be done but to hear Lady Catherine talk, which she did without any intermission till coffee came in, delivering her opinion on every subject in so decisive a manner, as proved that she was not used to have her judgement controverted.
_His_ eyes had been soon and repeatedly turned towards them with a look of curiosity; and that her ladyship, after a while, shared the feeling, was more openly acknowledged, for she did not scruple to call out:  "What is that you are saying, Fitzwilliam?
"Do you not want to know who has taken it?"
Is this your gratitude for my attentions to you last spring?
But, however this remonstrance might have staggered or delayed his determination, I do not suppose that it would ultimately have prevented the marriage, had it not been seconded by the assurance that I hesitated not in giving, of your sister's indifference.
"I will not trust myself on the subject," replied Wickham; "I can hardly be just to him."
Elizabeth hesitated, but her knees trembled under her and she felt how little would be gained by her attempting to pursue them.
Wickham's affection for Lydia was just what Elizabeth had expected to find it; not equal to Lydia's for him.
"How unfortunate that you should have used such very strong expressions in speaking of Wickham to Mr. Darcy, for now they _do_ appear wholly undeserved."
Bingley met them with hopes that Mrs. Bennet had not found Miss Bennet worse than she expected.
of all his sister's falsehood and contrivance!
Miss Bingley's letter arrived, and put an end to doubt.
You have widely mistaken my character, if you think I can be worked on by such persuasions as these.
Elizabeth tried to be diverted by them; but all sense of pleasure was lost in shame.
Elizabeth, feeling all the more than common awkwardness and anxiety of his situation, now forced herself to speak; and immediately, though not very fluently, gave him to understand that her sentiments had undergone so material a change, since the period to which he alluded, as to make her receive with gratitude and pleasure his present assurances.
Mr. Darcy has not authorised me to make his communication public.
Darcy was delighted with their engagement; his friend had given him the earliest information of it.
I only want to think _you_ perfect, and you set yourself against it.
Mrs. Gardiner went away in all the perplexity about Elizabeth and her Derbyshire friend that had attended her from that part of the world.
the eldest Miss Bennet, beyond a doubt; there cannot be two opinions on that point.'"
"With respect to that other, more weighty accusation, of having injured Mr. Wickham, I can only refute it by laying before you the whole of his connection with my family.
They soon outstripped the others, and when they had reached the carriage, Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner were half a quarter of a mile behind.
Mrs. Bennet chose to consider it as given in compliment to her eldest daughter, and was particularly flattered by receiving the invitation from Mr. Bingley himself, instead of a ceremonious card.
You must give me leave to judge for myself, and pay me the compliment of believing what I say.
Mr. Darcy's letter she was in a fair way of soon knowing by heart.
But no such recollection befriended her.
Jane listened with astonishment and concern; she knew not how to believe that Mr. Darcy could be so unworthy of Mr. Bingley's regard; and yet, it was not in her nature to question the veracity of a young man of such amiable appearance as Wickham.
Colonel Forster came yesterday, having left Brighton the day before, not many hours after the express.
"Very well.
But it was her business to be satisfied--and certainly her temper to be happy; and all was soon right again.
As a clergyman, moreover, I feel it my duty to promote and establish the blessing of peace in all families within the reach of my influence; and on these grounds I flatter myself that my present overtures are highly commendable, and that the circumstance of my being next in the entail of Longbourn estate will be kindly overlooked on your side, and not lead you to reject the offered olive-branch.
added Elizabeth; "safe from a connection imprudent as to fortune."
By you, I was properly humbled.
But I tell you, Miss Lizzy--if you take it into your head to go on refusing every offer of marriage in this way, you will never get a husband at all--and I am sure I do not know who is to maintain you when your father is dead.
"A thorough, determined dislike of me--a dislike which I cannot but attribute in some measure to jealousy.
Lady Catherine's great attentions to Mrs. Collins you have been a daily witness of; and altogether I trust it does not appear that your friend has drawn an unfortunate--but on this point it will be as well to be silent.
said he; "that is rather singular."
Could you expect me to rejoice in the inferiority of your connections?--to congratulate myself on the hope of relations, whose condition in life is so decidedly beneath my own?"
His words seemed to imply it.
Jane ran to her uncle and aunt, and welcomed and thanked them both, with alternate smiles and tears.
said Jane as she finished it.
Those were your words.
"Oh, yes!--that, that is the worst of all.
At such an assembly as this it would be insupportable.
If he had been so very agreeable, he would have talked to Mrs. Long.
Lizzy declares she will not have Mr. Collins, and Mr. Collins begins to say that he will not have Lizzy."
"Then you would drink a great deal more than you ought," said Mrs. Bennet; "and if I were to see you at it, I should take away your bottle directly."
"It is fortunate, then, that they fall to my lot instead of yours."
The house, furniture, neighbourhood, and roads, were all to her taste, and Lady Catherine's behaviour was most friendly and obliging.
In spite of having been at St. James's Sir William was so completely awed by the grandeur surrounding him, that he had but just courage enough to make a very low bow, and take his seat without saying a word; and his daughter, frightened almost out of her senses, sat on the edge of her chair, not knowing which way to look.
I suppose she had nothing particular to say to you, Lizzy?"
It is natural that obligation should be felt, and if I could _feel_ gratitude, I would now thank you.
Her face is too thin; her complexion has no brilliancy; and her features are not at all handsome.
He inquired how far Netherfield was from Meryton; and, after receiving her answer, asked in a hesitating manner how long Mr. Darcy had been staying there.
She was not sorry, however, to have the recital of them interrupted by the lady from whom they sprang.
I will read it to you:"  "When my brother left us yesterday, he imagined that the business which took him to London might be concluded in three or four days; but as we are certain it cannot be so, and at the same time convinced that when Charles gets to town he will be in no hurry to leave it again, we have determined on following him thither, that he may not be obliged to spend his vacant hours in a comfortless hotel.
Have not you always hated him?"
"I am grieved indeed," cried Darcy; "grieved--shocked.
You must learn some of my philosophy.
She had obtained private intelligence that Mr. Darcy did not wish for cards; and Mr. Hurst soon found even his open petition rejected.
"I had once had some thought of fixing in town myself--for I am fond of superior society; but I did not feel quite certain that the air of London would agree with Lady Lucas."
Of the lady's sensations they remained a little in doubt; but that the gentleman was overflowing with admiration was evident enough.
"I dislike it very much," he replied; "but it must be done."
This was enough to prove that her approbation need not be doubted: and Elizabeth, rejoicing that such an effusion was heard only by herself, soon went away.
When the gentlemen rose to go away, Mrs. Bennet was mindful of her intended civility, and they were invited and engaged to dine at Longbourn in a few days time.
"Well, well," said he, "do not make yourself unhappy.
The officers will find women better worth their notice.
"Already arisen?"
Follies and nonsense, whims and inconsistencies, _do_ divert me, I own, and I laugh at them whenever I can.
She has a very good notion of fingering, though her taste is not equal to Anne's.
Such relief, however, as it was in her power to afford, by the practice of what might be called economy in her own private expences, she frequently sent them.
He then recollected her embarrassment a few days before, on his reading Mr. Collins's letter; and after laughing at her some time, allowed her at last to go--saying, as she quitted the room, "If any young men come for Mary or Kitty, send them in, for I am quite at leisure."
His resentment was in proportion to the distress of his circumstances--and he was doubtless as violent in his abuse of me to others as in his reproaches to myself.
Not that I mean to find fault with _you_, for such things I know are all chance in this world.
You may have drawn him in."
I wonder that the very pride of this Mr. Darcy has not made him just to you!
"Nothing is more deceitful," said Darcy, "than the appearance of humility.
"We will go as far as Meryton with you," said Catherine and Lydia.
My daughter and my nephew are formed for each other.
In the former were many good paintings; but Elizabeth knew nothing of the art; and from such as had been already visible below, she had willingly turned to look at some drawings of Miss Darcy's, in crayons, whose subjects were usually more interesting, and also more intelligible.
If he is satisfied with only regretting me, when he might have obtained my affections and hand, I shall soon cease to regret him at all."
They stood a little aloof while he was talking to their niece, who, astonished and confused, scarcely dared lift her eyes to his face, and knew not what answer she returned to his civil inquiries after her family.
Her resistance had not injured her with the gentleman, and he was thinking of her with some complacency, when thus accosted by Miss Bingley:  "I can guess the subject of your reverie."
Have a little compassion on my nerves.
You had much better dance."
They were ignorant, idle, and vain.
then--some time or other we shall be happy to hear you.
"Oh!
GARDINER."
Their society can afford no pleasure that will atone for such wretchedness as this!
But we must stem the tide of malice, and pour into the wounded bosoms of each other the balm of sisterly consolation."
On this subject, what can you have to say?
And with a bow to Mr. Darcy, he concluded his speech, which had been spoken so loud as to be heard by half the room.
"How strange!"
Elizabeth walked in quest of the only face whose features would be known to her.
No aunt, no officers, no news could be sought after--the very shoe-roses for Netherfield were got by proxy.
His attentions to Miss King were now the consequence of views solely and hatefully mercenary; and the mediocrity of her fortune proved no longer the moderation of his wishes, but his eagerness to grasp at anything.
Georgiana's reception of them was very civil, but attended with all the embarrassment which, though proceeding from shyness and the fear of doing wrong, would easily give to those who felt themselves inferior the belief of her being proud and reserved.
"But if I do not take your likeness now, I may never have another opportunity."
Bingley."
Lydia, my love, ring the bell--I must speak to Hill this moment."
My mind was more agreeably engaged.
In a doleful voice Mrs. Bennet began the projected conversation: "Oh!
Women fancy admiration means more than it does."
Those were your words.
She immediately felt that whatever desire Miss Darcy might have of being acquainted with her must be the work of her brother, and, without looking farther, it was satisfactory; it was gratifying to know that his resentment had not made him think really ill of her.
"Oh!
But, however, he did not admire her at all; indeed, nobody can, you know; and he seemed quite struck with Jane as she was going down the dance.
With a stronger voice she soon added, "I have this comfort immediately, that it has not been more than an error of fancy on my side, and that it has done no harm to anyone but myself."
By many significant looks and silent entreaties, did she endeavour to prevent such a proof of complaisance, but in vain; Mary would not understand them; such an opportunity of exhibiting was delightful to her, and she began her song.
"Yes, and I had heard it before.
Sir William Lucas, and his daughter Maria, a good-humoured girl, but as empty-headed as himself, had nothing to say that could be worth hearing, and were listened to with about as much delight as the rattle of the chaise.
"Lizzy is only headstrong in such matters as these.
We must have Mrs. Long and the Gouldings soon.
"I do not blame Jane," she continued, "for Jane would have got Mr. Bingley if she could.
"I am sorry to hear _that_; but why did not you tell me that before?
"Pride," observed Mary, who piqued herself upon the solidity of her reflections, "is a very common failing, I believe.
"My dear aunt, this is being serious indeed."
said Elizabeth, still addressing Colonel Fitzwilliam.
"Indeed I am.
Among those who are at all his equals in consequence, he is a very different man from what he is to the less prosperous.
As soon as they entered the copse, Lady Catherine began in the following manner:--  "You can be at no loss, Miss Bennet, to understand the reason of my journey hither.
The garden sloping to the road, the house standing in it, the green pales, and the laurel hedge, everything declared they were arriving.
"All!
The present unhappy state of the family rendered any other excuse for the lowness of her spirits unnecessary; nothing, therefore, could be fairly conjectured from _that_, though Elizabeth, who was by this time tolerably well acquainted with her own feelings, was perfectly aware that, had she known nothing of Darcy, she could have borne the dread of Lydia's infamy somewhat better.
"My dear madam," replied he, "let us be for ever silent on this point.
You will be censured, slighted, and despised, by everyone connected with him.
Good-bye."
Lady Catherine hesitated for a moment, and then replied:  "The engagement between them is of a peculiar kind.
They all paint tables, cover screens, and net purses.
but there were two or three much uglier in the shop; and when I have bought some prettier-coloured satin to trim it with fresh, I think it will be very tolerable.
When Lydia went away she promised to write very often and very minutely to her mother and Kitty; but her letters were always long expected, and always very short.
The joy which Miss Darcy expressed on receiving similar information, was as sincere as her brother's in sending it.
You are so strange!
"Are you so severe upon your own sex as to doubt the possibility of all this?"
Mrs. Bennet, who fancied she had gained a complete victory over him, continued her triumph.
Have you had any flirting?
This match, to which you have the presumption to aspire, can never take place.
He had rather hoped that his wife's views on the stranger would be disappointed; but he soon found out that he had a different story to hear.
I am particularly unlucky in meeting with a person so able to expose my real character, in a part of the world where I had hoped to pass myself off with some degree of credit.
"I understood that there were some very strong objections against the lady."
"What a letter is this, to be written at such a moment!
If you do not choose to understand me, forgive my impertinence.
There are undoubtedly many who could not say the same, but thanks to Lady Catherine de Bourgh, I am removed far beyond the necessity of regarding little matters."
I could not bear to have her ten miles from me; and as for Pulvis Lodge, the attics are dreadful."
Kitty and me were to spend the day there, and Mrs. Forster promised to have a little dance in the evening; (by the bye, Mrs. Forster and me are _such_ friends!)
The first half-hour was spent in piling up the fire, lest she should suffer from the change of room; and she removed at his desire to the other side of the fireplace, that she might be further from the door.
"They battled it together for a long time, which was more than either the gentleman or lady concerned in it deserved.
Her ladyship received them civilly, but it was plain that their company was by no means so acceptable as when she could get nobody else; and she was, in fact, almost engrossed by her nephews, speaking to them, especially to Darcy, much more than to any other person in the room.
Elizabeth would not oppose such an injunction--and a moment's consideration making her also sensible that it would be wisest to get it over as soon and as quietly as possible, she sat down again and tried to conceal, by incessant employment the feelings which were divided between distress and diversion.
"In the first place," replied Mr. Gardiner, "there is no absolute proof that they are not gone to Scotland."
Elizabeth took up some needlework, and was sufficiently amused in attending to what passed between Darcy and his companion.
The second began.
"They met several times, for there was much to be discussed.
But as it is, you must not let your fancy run away with you.
Where is your sash, my dear?"
I never heard of such a thing.
"You look pale.
I rather expected, from my knowledge of her affability, that it would happen.
If your feelings are still what they were last April, tell me so at once.
There was now employment for the whole party--for though they could not all talk, they could all eat; and the beautiful pyramids of grapes, nectarines, and peaches soon collected them round the table.
This was a lucky recollection--it saved her from something very like regret.
A little time, therefore--I shall certainly try to get the better."
But I wonder how long you _would_ have gone on, if you had been left to yourself.
There is not one of his tenants or servants but will give him a good name.
When the clock struck three, Elizabeth felt that she must go, and very unwillingly said so.
"His pride," said Miss Lucas, "does not offend _me_ so much as pride often does, because there is an excuse for it.
"Is this," thought Elizabeth, "meant for me?"
I now give it to _you_, if you are resolved on having him.
"It is _not_ Mr. Bingley," said her husband; "it is a person whom I never saw in the whole course of my life."
She tried to recollect some instance of goodness, some distinguished trait of integrity or benevolence, that might rescue him from the attacks of Mr. Darcy; or at least, by the predominance of virtue, atone for those casual errors under which she would endeavour to class what Mr. Darcy had described as the idleness and vice of many years' continuance.
You are not well enough; you cannot go yourself."
There was no help for it, however.
"It is from Miss Bingley," said Jane, and then read it aloud.
But she would not allow herself to stay with her sister, or say half that remained to be said for the present.
His appearance was greatly in his favour; he had all the best part of beauty, a fine countenance, a good figure, and very pleasing address.
Mrs. Hill began instantly to express her joy.
But I must tell you how it went off.
On such encouragement to ask, Elizabeth was forced to put it out of her power, by running away.
Does she live near you, sir?"
But she had no reason to fear Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner's curiosity; it was not their wish to force her communication.
As they walked home, Elizabeth related to Jane what she had seen pass between the two gentlemen; but though Jane would have defended either or both, had they appeared to be in the wrong, she could no more explain such behaviour than her sister.
She was of great use and comfort to us all.
"So, Lizzy," said he one day, "your sister is crossed in love, I find.
I can no longer help thanking you for your unexampled kindness to my poor sister.
When a woman has five grown-up daughters, she ought to give over thinking of her own beauty."
"When they all removed to Brighton, therefore, you had no reason, I suppose, to believe them fond of each other?"
And who knows what _may_ happen?
"But can you think that Lydia is so lost to everything but love of him as to consent to live with him on any terms other than marriage?"
"Miss Bennet," replied her ladyship, in an angry tone, "you ought to know, that I am not to be trifled with.
I am glad he is gone.
"But it is not merely this affair," she continued, "on which my dislike is founded.
Jane pictured to herself a happy evening in the society of her two friends, and the attentions of her brother; and Elizabeth thought with pleasure of dancing a great deal with Mr. Wickham, and of seeing a confirmation of everything in Mr. Darcy's look and behaviour.
I can now say with the housekeeper, that though some people may call him proud, I have seen nothing of it."
The express was sent off directly.
I have scarcely any hesitation in saying she will include you and my sister Maria in every invitation with which she honours us during your stay here.
She was _now_ struck with the impropriety of such communications to a stranger, and wondered it had escaped her before.
Poor dear child!
Miss Darcy was tall, and on a larger scale than Elizabeth; and, though little more than sixteen, her figure was formed, and her appearance womanly and graceful.
I thought it my duty to give the speediest intelligence of this to my cousin, that she and her noble admirer may be aware of what they are about, and not run hastily into a marriage which has not been properly sanctioned.'
He was struggling for the appearance of composure, and would not open his lips till he believed himself to have attained it.
"I am not afraid of you," said he, smilingly.
I am only ashamed of his asking so little."
"Oh!
Miss Lydia is going to be married; and you shall all have a bowl of punch to make merry at her wedding."
Mrs. Collins, did I tell you of Lady Metcalf's calling yesterday to thank me?
Very few days passed in which Mr. Collins did not walk to Rosings, and not many in which his wife did not think it necessary to go likewise; and till Elizabeth recollected that there might be other family livings to be disposed of, she could not understand the sacrifice of so many hours.
"It did.
He found her as handsome as she had been last year; as good natured, and as unaffected, though not quite so chatty.
"Oh!
Mary wished to say something sensible, but knew not how.
I thought I should have died.
The wisest and the best of men--nay, the wisest and best of their actions--may be rendered ridiculous by a person whose first object in life is a joke."
She would not betray her trust, I suppose, without bribery and corruption, for she really did know where her friend was to be found.
Single, my dear, to be sure!
Upon this signal, the youngest of her daughters put herself forward.
"I am sure there is not on _his_.
There was a something in her countenance which made him listen with an apprehensive and anxious attention, while she added:  "When I said that he improved on acquaintance, I did not mean that his mind or his manners were in a state of improvement, but that, from knowing him better, his disposition was better understood."
Every disposition of the ground was good; and she looked on the whole scene, the river, the trees scattered on its banks and the winding of the valley, as far as she could trace it, with delight.
Not one party, or scheme, or anything.
"I am sure I shall break _mine_," said Lydia.
She was now in an irritation as violent from delight, as she had ever been fidgety from alarm and vexation.
To Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner he was scarcely a less interesting personage than to herself.
Lydia came to us; and Wickham had constant admission to the house.
"And of this place," thought she, "I might have been mistress!
"Who do you mean, my dear?
Nay, when I read a letter of his, I cannot help giving him the preference even over Wickham, much as I value the impudence and hypocrisy of my son-in-law.
He then handed her in, Maria followed, and the door was on the point of being closed, when he suddenly reminded them, with some consternation, that they had hitherto forgotten to leave any message for the ladies at Rosings.
Do you draw?"
I never heard any harm of her; and I dare say she is one of the most tractable creatures in the world.
_Too much_, I am afraid; for what becomes of the moral, if our comfort springs from a breach of promise?
Her ladyship was highly incensed.
It is not likely that money should be very abundant on either side; and it might strike them that they could be more economically, though less expeditiously, married in London than in Scotland."
"My dear Mr. Bennet," replied his wife, "how can you be so tiresome!
Lady Catherine, it appeared, had actually taken the trouble of this journey from Rosings, for the sole purpose of breaking off her supposed engagement with Mr. Darcy.
And if you will stay another _month_ complete, it will be in my power to take one of you as far as London, for I am going there early in June, for a week; and as Dawson does not object to the barouche-box, there will be very good room for one of you--and indeed, if the weather should happen to be cool, I should not object to taking you both, as you are neither of you large."
I should be glad to take a turn in it, if you will favour me with your company."
On Saturday morning Elizabeth and Mr. Collins met for breakfast a few minutes before the others appeared; and he took the opportunity of paying the parting civilities which he deemed indispensably necessary.
I will go directly to Mr. Bennet, and we shall very soon settle it with her, I am sure."
She tried to recollect some instance of goodness, some distinguished trait of integrity or benevolence, that might rescue him from the attacks of Mr. Darcy; or at least, by the predominance of virtue, atone for those casual errors under which she would endeavour to class what Mr. Darcy had described as the idleness and vice of many years' continuance.
"You need not distress yourself.
How much I shall have to tell!"
I thought too ill of him to invite him to Pemberley, or admit his society in town.
Neither Jane nor Elizabeth were comfortable on this subject.
Elizabeth, particularly, who knew that her mother owed to the latter the preservation of her favourite daughter from irremediable infamy, was hurt and distressed to a most painful degree by a distinction so ill applied.
Mrs. Gardiner, who was several years younger than Mrs. Bennet and Mrs. Phillips, was an amiable, intelligent, elegant woman, and a great favourite with all her Longbourn nieces.
That he was not a good-tempered man had been her firmest opinion.
"What, has she frightened away some of your lovers?
In revolving Lady Catherine's expressions, however, she could not help feeling some uneasiness as to the possible consequence of her persisting in this interference.
"Yes, very handsome."
Mr. Darcy often acknowledged himself to be under the greatest obligations to my father's active superintendence, and when, immediately before my father's death, Mr. Darcy gave him a voluntary promise of providing for me, I am convinced that he felt it to be as much a debt of gratitude to _him_, as of his affection to myself."
Elizabeth saw directly that her father had not the smallest intention of yielding; but his answers were at the same time so vague and equivocal, that her mother, though often disheartened, had never yet despaired of succeeding at last.
"I am sorry to hear _that_; but why did not you tell me that before?
She is a selfish, hypocritical woman, and I have no opinion of her."
Mrs. Gardiner went away in all the perplexity about Elizabeth and her Derbyshire friend that had attended her from that part of the world.
I _will_ read you the passage which particularly hurts me.
Elizabeth made no answer; and without attempting to persuade her ladyship to return into the house, walked quietly into it herself.
You will not, I hope, consider me as showing any disrespect to your family, my dear madam, by thus withdrawing my pretensions to your daughter's favour, without having paid yourself and Mr. Bennet the compliment of requesting you to interpose your authority in my behalf.
I do assure you that I am not one of those young ladies (if such young ladies there are) who are so daring as to risk their happiness on the chance of being asked a second time.
But she is very young; she has never been taught to think on serious subjects; and for the last half-year, nay, for a twelvemonth--she has been given up to nothing but amusement and vanity.
Elizabeth obeyed, and running into her own room for her parasol, attended her noble guest downstairs.
As soon as Jane had read Mr. Gardiner's hope of Lydia's being soon married, her joy burst forth, and every following sentence added to its exuberance.
"This must be a most inconvenient sitting room for the evening, in summer; the windows are full west."
But let me advise you to think better of it.
He repeated the question, with some surprise at her silence.
If a woman conceals her affection with the same skill from the object of it, she may lose the opportunity of fixing him; and it will then be but poor consolation to believe the world equally in the dark.
"We will not quarrel for the greater share of blame annexed to that evening," said Elizabeth.
Here, Sarah, come to Miss Bennet this moment, and help her on with her gown.
He and his sisters were well, I hope, when you left London?"
Mrs. Bennet had been strongly inclined to ask them to stay and dine there that day; but, though she always kept a very good table, she did not think anything less than two courses could be good enough for a man on whom she had such anxious designs, or satisfy the appetite and pride of one who had ten thousand a year.
They are destined for each other by the voice of every member of their respective houses; and what is to divide them?
How can Mr. Bingley, who seems good humour itself, and is, I really believe, truly amiable, be in friendship with such a man?
If your feelings are still what they were last April, tell me so at once.
"And can you likewise declare, that there is no foundation for it?"
Their manners are not equal to his."
Mrs. Gardiner and her niece, however, did her justice, and pitied her.
She would not listen, therefore, to her daughter's proposal of being carried home; neither did the apothecary, who arrived about the same time, think it at all advisable.
My faults, according to this calculation, are heavy indeed!
"You are mistaken.
If such goodness does not make her miserable now, she will never deserve to be happy!
There was no arguing upon such a project.
It is very unlucky; but as I have actually paid the visit, we cannot escape the acquaintance now."
He begins with congratulations on the approaching nuptials of my eldest daughter, of which, it seems, he has been told by some of the good-natured, gossiping Lucases.
Jane looked at Elizabeth with surprise and concern.
Darcy?"
But no such happy marriage could now teach the admiring multitude what connubial felicity really was.
Bingley was sure of being liked wherever he appeared, Darcy was continually giving offense.
Miss Bennet's pleasing manners grew on the goodwill of Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley; and though the mother was found to be intolerable, and the younger sisters not worth speaking to, a wish of being better acquainted with _them_ was expressed towards the two eldest.
Her father lifted up his eyes.
and so did Mrs. Forster.
That tall, proud man."
Let us flatter ourselves that I may be the survivor."
Well, well, I only hope it will last.
"Nothing so easy, if you have but the inclination," said Elizabeth.
Everything nourishes what is strong already.
They could talk of nothing but officers; and Mr. Bingley's large fortune, the mention of which gave animation to their mother, was worthless in their eyes when opposed to the regimentals of an ensign.
Elizabeth could safely say that it was a great happiness where that was the case, and with equal sincerity could add, that she firmly believed and rejoiced in his domestic comforts.
I wonder when you _would_ have spoken, if I had not asked you!
She was wild to be at home--to hear, to see, to be upon the spot to share with Jane in the cares that must now fall wholly upon her, in a family so deranged, a father absent, a mother incapable of exertion, and requiring constant attendance; and though almost persuaded that nothing could be done for Lydia, her uncle's interference seemed of the utmost importance, and till he entered the room her impatience was severe.
The subject elevated him to more than usual solemnity of manner, and with a most important aspect he protested that "he had never in his life witnessed such behaviour in a person of rank--such affability and condescension, as he had himself experienced from Lady Catherine.
For what do we live, but to make sport for our neighbours, and laugh at them in our turn?"
They are my old friends.
'This young gentleman is blessed, in a peculiar way, with every thing the heart of mortal can most desire,--splendid property, noble kindred, and extensive patronage.
My brother and the gentlemen are to dine with the officers.--Yours ever,  "CAROLINE BINGLEY"  "With the officers!"
"And we mean to treat you all," added Lydia, "but you must lend us the money, for we have just spent ours at the shop out there."
"And pray, may I ask?--" But checking himself, he added, in a gayer tone, "Is it in address that he improves?
This information made Elizabeth smile, as she thought of poor Miss Bingley.
She saw instantly that her cousin's manners were not altered by his marriage; his formal civility was just what it had been, and he detained her some minutes at the gate to hear and satisfy his inquiries after all her family.
But she had no reason to fear Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner's curiosity; it was not their wish to force her communication.
He paused in hopes of an answer; but his companion was not disposed to make any; and Elizabeth at that instant moving towards them, he was struck with the action of doing a very gallant thing, and called out to her:  "My dear Miss Eliza, why are you not dancing?
"You must not blame my aunt.
When to these recollections was added the development of Wickham's character, it may be easily believed that the happy spirits which had seldom been depressed before, were now so much affected as to make it almost impossible for her to appear tolerably cheerful.
A single man of large fortune; four or five thousand a year.
Bingley of course returned with him to dinner; and in the evening Mrs. Bennet's invention was again at work to get every body away from him and her daughter.
"There _is_ something a little stately in him, to be sure," replied her aunt, "but it is confined to his air, and is not unbecoming.
She declared her resolution.
"It ought to be good," he replied, "it has been the work of many generations."
How could his will be disregarded?
Mary and Kitty, thank Heaven, are quite well."
The sisters, on hearing this, repeated three or four times how much they were grieved, how shocking it was to have a bad cold, and how excessively they disliked being ill themselves; and then thought no more of the matter: and their indifference towards Jane when not immediately before them restored Elizabeth to the enjoyment of all her former dislike.
What a meeting for her, when she first sees my aunt!"
How merry we shall be together when we meet!"
"An excellent consolation in its way," said Elizabeth, "but it will not do for _us_.
cried Mr. Wickham with a look which did not escape her.
I am only resolved to act in that manner, which will, in my own opinion, constitute my happiness, without reference to _you_, or to any person so wholly unconnected with me."
When they sat down to supper, therefore, she considered it a most unlucky perverseness which placed them within one of each other; and deeply was she vexed to find that her mother was talking to that one person (Lady Lucas) freely, openly, and of nothing else but her expectation that Jane would soon be married to Mr. Bingley.
With this answer Elizabeth was forced to be content; but her own opinion continued the same, and she left him disappointed and sorry.
_they_ will take care not to outrun their income.
As long as she stays there, it is all very well.
"I am sorry, exceedingly sorry," replied Darcy, in a tone of surprise and emotion, "that you have ever been informed of what may, in a mistaken light, have given you uneasiness.
I have suspected it some time, but I am now convinced."
All that is required of you is, to assure to your daughter, by settlement, her equal share of the five thousand pounds secured among your children after the decease of yourself and my sister; and, moreover, to enter into an engagement of allowing her, during your life, one hundred pounds per annum.
He knows where we live.
Allow me, by the way, to observe, my fair cousin, that I do not reckon the notice and kindness of Lady Catherine de Bourgh as among the least of the advantages in my power to offer.
Perhaps this concealment, this disguise was beneath me; it is done, however, and it was done for the best.
His air was grave and stately, and his manners were very formal.
Dear, dear Lizzy.
Charlotte's reply was spared by the entrance of Jane and Elizabeth.
She had heard nothing of Lady Catherine that spoke her awful from any extraordinary talents or miraculous virtue, and the mere stateliness of money or rank she thought she could witness without trepidation.
"I would not wish to be hasty in censuring anyone; but I always speak what I think."
With all these circumstances to favour an attachment, and nothing to prevent it, am I wrong, my dearest Jane, in indulging the hope of an event which will secure the happiness of so many?"
That his anger could be carried to such a point of inconceivable resentment as to refuse his daughter a privilege without which her marriage would scarcely seem valid, exceeded all she could believe possible.
She was not the better pleased with his gallantry from the idea it suggested of something more.
replied Kitty, "it looks just like that man that used to be with him before.
"But there seems an indelicacy in directing his attentions towards her so soon after this event."
said Charlotte, as soon as he was gone.
Miss Lucas perceived him from an upper window as he walked towards the house, and instantly set out to meet him accidentally in the lane.
The two young ladies were summoned from the shrubbery, where this conversation passed, by the arrival of the very persons of whom they had been speaking; Mr. Bingley and his sisters came to give their personal invitation for the long-expected ball at Netherfield, which was fixed for the following Tuesday.
He then went away, and Miss Bingley was left to all the satisfaction of having forced him to say what gave no one any pain but herself.
"You have no regard, then, for the honour and credit of my nephew!
There can be no love in all this.
and, with no little alarm, whether the family were down for the summer?
In anticipating the happiness of Bingley, which of course was to be inferior only to his own, he continued the conversation till they reached the house.
Your retrospections must be so totally void of reproach, that the contentment arising from them is not of philosophy, but, what is much better, of innocence.
How could I ever be foolish enough to expect a renewal of his love?
Mr. Bennet replied that he had not.
Sir William did not say much.
She began at length to recover, to fidget about in her chair, get up, sit down again, wonder, and bless herself.
Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner smiled.
She would not betray her trust, I suppose, without bribery and corruption, for she really did know where her friend was to be found.
But in what proportions it should be divided amongst the latter depended on the will of the parents.
But she is perfectly amiable, and often condescends to drive by my humble abode in her little phaeton and ponies."
"Has your governess left you?"
Mr. Darcy, you cannot deny the fact."
She does not yet leave her dressing-room.
By Elizabeth's instructions, she began to comprehend that a woman may take liberties with her husband which a brother will not always allow in a sister more than ten years younger than himself.
Could he have Colonel Fitzwilliam in his thoughts?
"Oh!
"You appear to me, Mr. Darcy, to allow nothing for the influence of friendship and affection.
Yes, he had no engagement at all for to-morrow; and her invitation was accepted with alacrity.
I am sure you neglect nothing that can add to the beauties of that noble place.
About the middle of the next day, as she was in her room getting ready for a walk, a sudden noise below seemed to speak the whole house in confusion; and, after listening a moment, she heard somebody running up stairs in a violent hurry, and calling loudly after her.
By Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley they were noticed only by a curtsey; and, on their being seated, a pause, awkward as such pauses must always be, succeeded for a few moments.
It cannot be for _me_--it cannot be for _my_ sake that his manners are thus softened.
The supposition did not pain her.
The joy which Miss Darcy expressed on receiving similar information, was as sincere as her brother's in sending it.
Had his first appearance, or his resemblance to the picture they had just been examining, been insufficient to assure the other two that they now saw Mr. Darcy, the gardener's expression of surprise, on beholding his master, must immediately have told it.
These causes must be stated, though briefly.
You know my mother's ideas as to the necessity of constant company for her friends.
I am sure I shan't get a wink of sleep all night.
"You are uniformly charming!"
Miss Bingley was then sorry that she had proposed the delay, for her jealousy and dislike of one sister much exceeded her affection for the other.
She felt it so; and though, in looking forward, neither rational happiness nor worldly prosperity could be justly expected for her sister, in looking back to what they had feared, only two hours ago, she felt all the advantages of what they had gained.
She was _now_ struck with the impropriety of such communications to a stranger, and wondered it had escaped her before.
But I know the foundation is unjust.
He cannot afford it.
I am glad he dines here on Tuesday.
Did you ever hear Darcy mention the circumstance, when you were in Kent?"
Without thinking highly either of men or matrimony, marriage had always been her object; it was the only provision for well-educated young women of small fortune, and however uncertain of giving happiness, must be their pleasantest preservative from want.
Mrs. Bennet had so carefully provided for the entertainment of her brother and sister, that they did not once sit down to a family dinner.
When dinner was over, she returned directly to Jane, and Miss Bingley began abusing her as soon as she was out of the room.
Hear me in silence.
Everything nourishes what is strong already.
Darcy!--and so it does, I vow.
"I hope, my dear," said Mr. Bennet to his wife, as they were at breakfast the next morning, "that you have ordered a good dinner to-day, because I have reason to expect an addition to our family party."
The discussion of Mr. Collins's offer was now nearly at an end, and Elizabeth had only to suffer from the uncomfortable feelings necessarily attending it, and occasionally from some peevish allusions of her mother.
This part of his intelligence, though unheard by Lydia, was caught by Elizabeth, and, as it assured her that Darcy was not less answerable for Wickham's absence than if her first surmise had been just, every feeling of displeasure against the former was so sharpened by immediate disappointment, that she could hardly reply with tolerable civility to the polite inquiries which he directly afterwards approached to make.
"We have dined nine times at Rosings, besides drinking tea there twice!
Indeed he has no improper pride.
"As much as I ever wish to be," cried Elizabeth very warmly.
The invitation was accepted of course, and at a proper hour they joined the party in Lady Catherine's drawing-room.
She will make him a very proper wife."
"I can easily believe it.
In describing to her all the grandeur of Lady Catherine and her mansion, with occasional digressions in praise of his own humble abode, and the improvements it was receiving, he was happily employed until the gentlemen joined them; and he found in Mrs. Phillips a very attentive listener, whose opinion of his consequence increased with what she heard, and who was resolving to retail it all among her neighbours as soon as she could.
She could think of nothing but of Mr. Wickham, and of what he had told her, all the way home; but there was not time for her even to mention his name as they went, for neither Lydia nor Mr. Collins were once silent.
"I should take him, even on _my_ slight acquaintance, to be an ill-tempered man."
It is a pity that great ladies in general are not more like her.
Mrs. Bennet, all amazement, though flattered by having a guest of such high importance, received her with the utmost politeness.
It was only said, 'Lately, George Wickham, Esq.
"You are very cruel," said her sister, "you will not let me smile, and are provoking me to it every moment."
Will you tell me how long you have loved him?"
If it were not allowable for him to gain _my_ affections because I had no money, what occasion could there be for making love to a girl whom he did not care about, and who was equally poor?"
If such goodness does not make her miserable now, she will never deserve to be happy!
My feelings are not puffed about with every attempt to move them.
If it was not for the entail, I should not mind it."
She perfectly remembered everything that had passed in conversation between Wickham and herself, in their first evening at Mr. Phillips's.
Accept my thanks for the compliment you are paying me.
But I have always observed, that they who are good-natured when children, are good-natured when they grow up; and he was always the sweetest-tempered, most generous-hearted boy in the world."
Oh!
If, in the explanation of them, which is due to myself, I am under the necessity of relating feelings which may be offensive to yours, I can only say that I am sorry.
"If you were to give me forty such men, I never could be so happy as you.
He is nothing to us, you know, and I am sure _I_ never want to see him again.
Her colour changed, and she said no more.
But, though Bingley and Jane meet tolerably often, it is never for many hours together; and, as they always see each other in large mixed parties, it is impossible that every moment should be employed in conversing together.
I know we dine with four-and-twenty families."
I should be sorry to think so ill of him, in the very beginning of our relationship."
"How near it may be to _mine_, I cannot pretend to say.
I thought too ill of him to invite him to Pemberley, or admit his society in town.
Nothing could be more delightful!
"I do not mind his not talking to Mrs. Long," said Miss Lucas, "but I wish he had danced with Eliza."
it is just as he chooses.
If I could but see _you_ as happy!
"Upon my word, sir," cried Elizabeth, "your hope is a rather extraordinary one after my declaration.
They found Mary, as usual, deep in the study of thorough-bass and human nature; and had some extracts to admire, and some new observations of threadbare morality to listen to.
"But I hope there is no strong attachment on either side," said Jane.
Mrs. Reynolds then directed their attention to one of Miss Darcy, drawn when she was only eight years old.
His appearance was greatly in his favour; he had all the best part of beauty, a fine countenance, a good figure, and very pleasing address.
Mr. Bennet raised his eyes from his book as she entered, and fixed them on her face with a calm unconcern which was not in the least altered by her communication.
On that head, therefore, I shall be uniformly silent; and you may assure yourself that no ungenerous reproach shall ever pass my lips when we are married."
She was disappointed, and angry with herself for being so.
But your arts and allurements may, in a moment of infatuation, have made him forget what he owes to himself and to all his family.
Are the others coming out?"
"DEAR SIR,  "I must trouble you once more for congratulations.
The discomposure of spirits which this extraordinary visit threw Elizabeth into, could not be easily overcome; nor could she, for many hours, learn to think of it less than incessantly.
You have withheld the advantages which you must know to have been designed for him.
And, besides, no traces of them were to be found on the Barnet road."
The far and the near must be relative, and depend on many varying circumstances.
Elizabeth said nothing, but it gratified her exceedingly; the compliment must be all for herself.
Jane listened with astonishment and concern; she knew not how to believe that Mr. Darcy could be so unworthy of Mr. Bingley's regard; and yet, it was not in her nature to question the veracity of a young man of such amiable appearance as Wickham.
I know not in what manner, under what form of falsehood he had imposed on you; but his success is not perhaps to be wondered at.
Whatever bears affinity to cunning is despicable."
Does your charge give you much trouble?
Scarcely a syllable was uttered that did not relate to the game, except when Mrs. Jenkinson expressed her fears of Miss de Bourgh's being too hot or too cold, or having too much or too little light.
He seemed scarcely to hear her, and was walking up and down the room in earnest meditation, his brow contracted, his air gloomy.
His understanding and opinions all please me; he wants nothing but a little more liveliness, and _that_, if he marry _prudently_, his wife may teach him.
Mr. Bingley was unaffectedly civil in his answer, and forced his younger sister to be civil also, and say what the occasion required.
Elizabeth, after slightly surveying it, went to a window to enjoy its prospect.
Nay, were your friend Lady Catherine to know me, I am persuaded she would find me in every respect ill qualified for the situation."
"Sir, you quite misunderstand me," said Mrs. Bennet, alarmed.
He then told her of Georgiana's delight in her acquaintance, and of her disappointment at its sudden interruption; which naturally leading to the cause of that interruption, she soon learnt that his resolution of following her from Derbyshire in quest of her sister had been formed before he quitted the inn, and that his gravity and thoughtfulness there had arisen from no other struggles than what such a purpose must comprehend.
But on the third morning after his arrival in Hertfordshire, she saw him, from her dressing-room window, enter the paddock and ride towards the house.
Proud that in a cause of compassion and honour, he had been able to get the better of himself.
The next was in these words: "I do not pretend to regret anything I shall leave in Hertfordshire, except your society, my dearest friend; but we will hope, at some future period, to enjoy many returns of that delightful intercourse we have known, and in the meanwhile may lessen the pain of separation by a very frequent and most unreserved correspondence.
I know not what to think.
Elizabeth was surprised, but agreed to it immediately.
Is not general incivility the very essence of love?"
"We have dined nine times at Rosings, besides drinking tea there twice!
Elizabeth honestly and heartily expressed her delight in the prospect of their relationship.
But do not be cast down.
In this perturbed state of mind, with thoughts that could rest on nothing, she walked on; but it would not do; in half a minute the letter was unfolded again, and collecting herself as well as she could, she again began the mortifying perusal of all that related to Wickham, and commanded herself so far as to examine the meaning of every sentence.
It is almost past belief.
All was acknowledged, and half the night spent in conversation.
It originated in Mrs. Gardiner, who, fatigued by the exercise of the morning, found Elizabeth's arm inadequate to her support, and consequently preferred her husband's.
My visit was not long, as Caroline and Mrs. Hurst were going out.
It only shows her being deficient in something herself--sense or feeling."
Does your charge give you much trouble?
In the next room is a new instrument just come down for her--a present from my master; she comes here to-morrow with him."
"Thank you, sir, but a less agreeable man would satisfy me.
Consider how important every moment is in such a case."
There was also a postscript to this effect:  "I have written to Colonel Forster to desire him to find out, if possible, from some of the young man's intimates in the regiment, whether Wickham has any relations or connections who would be likely to know in what part of town he has now concealed himself.
And since this sad affair has taken place, it is said that he left Meryton greatly in debt; but I hope this may be false."
He added that Mr. Bennet seemed wholly disinclined at present to leave London and promised to write again very soon.
In nine cases out of ten a women had better show _more_ affection than she feels.
He knows of my being in town, I am certain, from something she said herself; and yet it would seem, by her manner of talking, as if she wanted to persuade herself that he is really partial to Miss Darcy.
In his library he had been always sure of leisure and tranquillity; and though prepared, as he told Elizabeth, to meet with folly and conceit in every other room of the house, he was used to be free from them there; his civility, therefore, was most prompt in inviting Mr. Collins to join his daughters in their walk; and Mr. Collins, being in fact much better fitted for a walker than a reader, was extremely pleased to close his large book, and go.
"Oh!
Within a short walk of Longbourn lived a family with whom the Bennets were particularly intimate.
"Though it is difficult," said Jane, "to guess in what way he can mean to make us the atonement he thinks our due, the wish is certainly to his credit."
I will think no more about him."
She was afraid of talking longer of his friend; and, having nothing else to say, was now determined to leave the trouble of finding a subject to him.
Dear, dear Lizzy.
Perhaps there was some truth in _this_; though I doubt whether _his_ reserve, or _anybody's_ reserve, can be answerable for the event.
But he is a liberal master, I suppose, and _that_ in the eye of a servant comprehends every virtue."
Elizabeth lifted up her eyes in amazement, but was too much oppressed to make any reply.
She is well, and begs to be dutifully remembered to you and your mother.--Yours, etc.,  "E.
"_My_ overhearings were more to the purpose than _yours_, Eliza," said Charlotte.
"My mother is tolerably well, I trust; though her spirits are greatly shaken.
The envelope itself was likewise full.
I hope your plans in favour of the ----shire will not be affected by his being in the neighbourhood."
He danced only four dances, though gentlemen were scarce; and, to my certain knowledge, more than one young lady was sitting down in want of a partner.
Mr. Collins listened to her with the determined air of following his own inclination, and, when she ceased speaking, replied thus:  "My dear Miss Elizabeth, I have the highest opinion in the world in your excellent judgement in all matters within the scope of your understanding; but permit me to say, that there must be a wide difference between the established forms of ceremony amongst the laity, and those which regulate the clergy; for, give me leave to observe that I consider the clerical office as equal in point of dignity with the highest rank in the kingdom--provided that a proper humility of behaviour is at the same time maintained.
Kitty stared at him, and Lydia exclaimed.
The morrow produced no abatement of Mrs. Bennet's ill-humour or ill health.
But when this subject was succeeded by his account of Mr. Wickham--when she read with somewhat clearer attention a relation of events which, if true, must overthrow every cherished opinion of his worth, and which bore so alarming an affinity to his own history of himself--her feelings were yet more acutely painful and more difficult of definition.
Well, I was so frightened I did not know what to do, for my uncle was to give me away; and if we were beyond the hour, we could not be married all day.
The business of her life was to get her daughters married; its solace was visiting and news.
"I found," said he, "as the time drew near that I had better not meet Mr. Darcy; that to be in the same room, the same party with him for so many hours together, might be more than I could bear, and that scenes might arise unpleasant to more than myself."
Are the shades of Pemberley to be thus polluted?"
what has she to do with it?
Elizabeth's spirits were so high on this occasion, that though she did not often speak unnecessarily to Mr. Collins, she could not help asking him whether he intended to accept Mr. Bingley's invitation, and if he did, whether he would think it proper to join in the evening's amusement; and she was rather surprised to find that he entertained no scruple whatever on that head, and was very far from dreading a rebuke either from the Archbishop, or Lady Catherine de Bourgh, by venturing to dance.
The two youngest of the family, Catherine and Lydia, were particularly frequent in these attentions; their minds were more vacant than their sisters', and when nothing better offered, a walk to Meryton was necessary to amuse their morning hours and furnish conversation for the evening; and however bare of news the country in general might be, they always contrived to learn some from their aunt.
"It ought to be so; it must be so, while he retains the use of his reason.
said he, smiling.
He had found the law a most unprofitable study, and was now absolutely resolved on being ordained, if I would present him to the living in question--of which he trusted there could be little doubt, as he was well assured that I had no other person to provide for, and I could not have forgotten my revered father's intentions.
Who would have thought that she could be so thin and small?"
In truth I must acknowledge that, with all the disadvantages of this humble parsonage, I should not think anyone abiding in it an object of compassion, while they are sharers of our intimacy at Rosings."
You see how continually we are engaged there.
Did she call to refuse her consent?"
My dear Charlotte and I have but one mind and one way of thinking.
He spoke of it as a certain event, of which the time alone could be undecided.
This is my advice.
"Not as you represent it.
"Money!
"You are considering how insupportable it would be to pass many evenings in this manner--in such society; and indeed I am quite of your opinion.
Here you are in your own family."
"On the evening before my going to London," said he, "I made a confession to him, which I believe I ought to have made long ago.
"You may as well call it impertinence at once.
"His guilt and his descent appear by your account to be the same," said Elizabeth angrily; "for I have heard you accuse him of nothing worse than of being the son of Mr. Darcy's steward, and of _that_, I can assure you, he informed me himself."
When they repaired to the dining-room, Elizabeth eagerly watched to see whether Bingley would take the place, which, in all their former parties, had belonged to him, by her sister.
I must have my share in the conversation if you are speaking of music.
I do not trust my own partiality.
Everything, however, went on smoothly, and was finally settled according to Charlotte's first sketch.
An express came at twelve last night, just as we were all gone to bed, from Colonel Forster, to inform us that she was gone off to Scotland with one of his officers; to own the truth, with Wickham!
She received him with her very best politeness, which he returned with as much more, apologising for his intrusion, without any previous acquaintance with her, which he could not help flattering himself, however, might be justified by his relationship to the young ladies who introduced him to her notice.
"Oh, yes!--he was to come there with Wickham, you know.
cried Elizabeth, brightening up for a moment.
It was many months since she had mentioned his name to Elizabeth; but now, as soon as they were alone together, she said:  "I saw you look at me to-day, Lizzy, when my aunt told us of the present report; and I know I appeared distressed.
She was resolved against any sort of conversation with him, and turned away with a degree of ill-humour which she could not wholly surmount even in speaking to Mr. Bingley, whose blind partiality provoked her.
"Pray do, my dear Miss Lucas," she added in a melancholy tone, "for nobody is on my side, nobody takes part with me.
"And do not you think him a very handsome gentleman, ma'am?"
"Lizzy, when you first read that letter, I am sure you could not treat the matter as you do now."
She immediately felt that whatever desire Miss Darcy might have of being acquainted with her must be the work of her brother, and, without looking farther, it was satisfactory; it was gratifying to know that his resentment had not made him think really ill of her.
"It is a long time, Mr. Bingley, since you went away," said Mrs. Bennet.
I would go and see her if I could have the carriage."
"If you will only tell me what sort of girl Miss King is, I shall know what to think."
I am sure there was some great neglect or other on their side, for she is not the kind of girl to do such a thing if she had been well looked after.
It might seem as if she had purposely thrown herself in his way again!
If you do not choose to understand me, forgive my impertinence.
Much as I abominate writing, I would not give up Mr. Collins's correspondence for any consideration.
Within doors there was Lady Catherine, books, and a billiard-table, but gentlemen cannot always be within doors; and in the nearness of the Parsonage, or the pleasantness of the walk to it, or of the people who lived in it, the two cousins found a temptation from this period of walking thither almost every day.
The apothecary came, and having examined his patient, said, as might be supposed, that she had caught a violent cold, and that they must endeavour to get the better of it; advised her to return to bed, and promised her some draughts.
He had before believed her to return his affection with sincere, if not with equal regard.
But, my dearest Jane, you cannot seriously imagine that because Miss Bingley tells you her brother greatly admires Miss Darcy, he is in the smallest degree less sensible of _your_ merit than when he took leave of you on Tuesday, or that it will be in her power to persuade him that, instead of being in love with you, he is very much in love with her friend."
"What an excellent father you have, girls!"
"How can you be so silly," cried her mother, "as to think of such a thing, in all this dirt!
Mr. Bennet missed his second daughter exceedingly; his affection for her drew him oftener from home than anything else could do.
It was not in their direct road, nor more than a mile or two out of it.
How Wickham and Lydia were to be supported in tolerable independence, she could not imagine.
Oh!
"Not at all.
and turning round he looked for a moment at Elizabeth, till catching her eye, he withdrew his own and coldly said: "She is tolerable, but not handsome enough to tempt _me_; I am in no humour at present to give consequence to young ladies who are slighted by other men.
My younger sister has left all her friends--has eloped; has thrown herself into the power of--of Mr. Wickham.
Is there one among the sex, who would not protest against such a weakness as a second proposal to the same woman?
Many of my acquaintances are already there for the winter; I wish that I could hear that you, my dearest friend, had any intention of making one of the crowd--but of that I despair.
Very nonsensical to come at all!
Elizabeth coloured and laughed as she replied, "Yes, you know enough of my frankness to believe me capable of _that_.
Never, since reading Jane's second letter, had she entertained a hope of Wickham's meaning to marry her.
My poor father!
"Oh!
Wholly inattentive to her sister's feelings, Lydia flew about the house in restless ecstasy, calling for everyone's congratulations, and laughing and talking with more violence than ever; whilst the luckless Kitty continued in the parlour repined at her fate in terms as unreasonable as her accent was peevish.
She then sat still five minutes longer; but unable to waste such a precious occasion, she suddenly got up, and saying to Kitty, "Come here, my love, I want to speak to you," took her out of the room.
"If it was to be secret," said Jane, "say not another word on the subject.
I am so pleased--so happy.
Their situation was awkward enough; but _hers_ she thought was still worse.
"No, Lizzy, that is what I do _not_ choose.
Our importance, our respectability in the world must be affected by the wild volatility, the assurance and disdain of all restraint which mark Lydia's character.
"There is, I believe, in every disposition a tendency to some particular evil--a natural defect, which not even the best education can overcome."
But, my dear sister, though the event has proved you right, do not think me obstinate if I still assert that, considering what her behaviour was, my confidence was as natural as your suspicion.
Elizabeth then contrived to sit by her aunt.
What is it about?
"I cannot pretend to be sorry," said Wickham, after a short interruption, "that he or that any man should not be estimated beyond their deserts; but with _him_ I believe it does not often happen.
Her father was walking about the room, looking grave and anxious.
You do not know what he really is; then pray do not pain me by speaking of him in such terms."
Her manners were pronounced to be very bad indeed, a mixture of pride and impertinence; she had no conversation, no style, no beauty.
When Mr. Bennet wrote again to his brother, therefore, he sent his permission for them to come; and it was settled, that as soon as the ceremony was over, they should proceed to Longbourn.
My dear Charlotte and I have but one mind and one way of thinking.
He had certainly formed such a plan, and without meaning that it should affect his endeavour to separate him from Miss Bennet, it is probable that it might add something to his lively concern for the welfare of his friend.
Can his most intimate friends be so excessively deceived in him?
In a few minutes, Mrs. Bennet half-opened the door and called out:  "Lizzy, my dear, I want to speak with you."
Not these two or three years, perhaps."
"You quite mistook Mr. Darcy.
I am not qualified to form one.
forgive the question--are you quite certain that you can be happy with him?"
"Aye--because she asked him at last how he liked Netherfield, and he could not help answering her; but she said he seemed quite angry at being spoke to."
What a delightful library you have at Pemberley, Mr.
"I say no more than the truth, and everybody will say that knows him," replied the other.
An invitation to dinner was soon afterwards dispatched; and already had Mrs. Bennet planned the courses that were to do credit to her housekeeping, when an answer arrived which deferred it all.
He then recollected her embarrassment a few days before, on his reading Mr. Collins's letter; and after laughing at her some time, allowed her at last to go--saying, as she quitted the room, "If any young men come for Mary or Kitty, send them in, for I am quite at leisure."
She felt that she had no business at Pemberley, and was obliged to assume a disinclination for seeing it.
The more I see of the world, the more am I dissatisfied with it; and every day confirms my belief of the inconsistency of all human characters, and of the little dependence that can be placed on the appearance of merit or sense.
However little known the feelings or views of such a man may be on his first entering a neighbourhood, this truth is so well fixed in the minds of the surrounding families, that he is considered the rightful property of some one or other of their daughters.
We know how little there is to tempt anyone to our humble abode.
No one made any reply.
It was in The Times and The Courier, I know; though it was not put in as it ought to be.
Wherever you and Jane are known you must be respected and valued; and you will not appear to less advantage for having a couple of--or I may say, three--very silly sisters.
In that county there was enough to be seen to occupy the chief of their three weeks; and to Mrs. Gardiner it had a peculiarly strong attraction.
He begins with congratulations on the approaching nuptials of my eldest daughter, of which, it seems, he has been told by some of the good-natured, gossiping Lucases.
Let me never see either one or the other again!"
They were more disturbed, more unequal, than she had often seen them.
Elizabeth soon saw that she was herself closely watched by Miss Bingley, and that she could not speak a word, especially to Miss Darcy, without calling her attention.
There is nothing extravagant in _their_ housekeeping, I dare say."
Well, but now for my news; it is about dear Wickham; too good for the waiter, is it not?
However, I did not hear above one word in ten, for I was thinking, you may suppose, of my dear Wickham.
"I am sorry, exceedingly sorry," replied Darcy, in a tone of surprise and emotion, "that you have ever been informed of what may, in a mistaken light, have given you uneasiness.
Louisa and I were agreeing that we should not have known her again."
Every disposition of the ground was good; and she looked on the whole scene, the river, the trees scattered on its banks and the winding of the valley, as far as she could trace it, with delight.
There--I have saved you the trouble of accounting for it; and really, all things considered, I begin to think it perfectly reasonable.
I should be sorry to think our friend mercenary."
He had rather hoped that his wife's views on the stranger would be disappointed; but he soon found out that he had a different story to hear.
_He_ was exactly what he had been, when I knew him in Hertfordshire; but I would not tell you how little I was satisfied with her behaviour while she staid with us, if I had not perceived, by Jane's letter last Wednesday, that her conduct on coming home was exactly of a piece with it, and therefore what I now tell you can give you no fresh pain.
He meant to resign his commission immediately; and as to his future situation, he could conjecture very little about it.
No one but Jane, she thought, could flatter herself with such an expectation.
Darcy had walked away to another part of the room.
From something that he told me in our journey hither, I have reason to think Bingley very much indebted to him.
"I had much rather go in the coach."
The letter which she wrote on this occasion to her sister will prove what she felt.
Till this moment I never knew myself."
It is the greatest of favours when Miss de Bourgh comes in."
"Go, my dear," cried her mother, "and show her ladyship about the different walks.
and, with no little alarm, whether the family were down for the summer?
The sudden acquisition of ten thousand pounds was the most remarkable charm of the young lady to whom he was now rendering himself agreeable; but Elizabeth, less clear-sighted perhaps in this case than in Charlotte's, did not quarrel with him for his wish of independence.
We must not be so ready to fancy ourselves intentionally injured.
"I do assure you, sir, that I have no pretensions whatever to that kind of elegance which consists in tormenting a respectable man.
The palings of Rosings Park was their boundary on one side.
"Your great men often are; and therefore I shall not take him at his word, as he might change his mind another day, and warn me off his grounds."
"It is amazing to me," said Bingley, "how young ladies can have patience to be so very accomplished as they all are."
"I am sure I know none so handsome; but in the gallery up stairs you will see a finer, larger picture of him than this.
"And _that_ I suppose is one of your sisters."
"Aye--that is because you have the right disposition.
Till this moment I never knew myself."
Mr. Darcy smiled; but Elizabeth thought she could perceive that he was rather offended, and therefore checked her laugh.
"While I can have my mornings to myself," said she, "it is enough--I think it is no sacrifice to join occasionally in evening engagements.
Mr. Collins no sooner saw the two girls than he began to congratulate them on their good fortune, which Charlotte explained by letting them know that the whole party was asked to dine at Rosings the next day.
She had scarcely needed her present observation to be satisfied, from the reason of things, that their elopement had been brought on by the strength of her love, rather than by his; and she would have wondered why, without violently caring for her, he chose to elope with her at all, had she not felt certain that his flight was rendered necessary by distress of circumstances; and if that were the case, he was not the young man to resist an opportunity of having a companion.
"I thank you for my share of the favour," said Elizabeth; "but I do not particularly like your way of getting husbands."
You will hardly blame me for refusing to comply with this entreaty, or for resisting every repetition to it.
The manner in which they spoke of the Meryton assembly was sufficiently characteristic.
But really, and upon my honour, I will try to do what I think to be the wisest; and now I hope you are satisfied."
"Yes, in conjunction with his friend."
The children have been wanting me this half hour.
"I should not be surprised," said Darcy, "if he were to give it up as soon as any eligible purchase offers."
Miss Bingley, I am sure, cannot.
Upon my honour, I never met with so many pleasant girls in my life as I have this evening; and there are several of them you see uncommonly pretty."
"An easy distance, do you call it?
Such amiable qualities must speak for themselves.
Mrs. Gardiner was standing a little behind; and on her pausing, he asked her if she would do him the honour of introducing him to her friends.
Mr. Bennet missed his second daughter exceedingly; his affection for her drew him oftener from home than anything else could do.
Their first object was her sister; and she was more grieved than astonished to hear, in reply to her minute inquiries, that though Jane always struggled to support her spirits, there were periods of dejection.
I am always glad to get a young person well placed out.
At such an assembly as this it would be insupportable.
You _are_ a gentleman's daughter.
She listened most attentively to all that passed between them, and gloried in every expression, every sentence of her uncle, which marked his intelligence, his taste, or his good manners.
Tell him I hope he will excuse me when he knows all; and tell him I will dance with him at the next ball we meet, with great pleasure.
Elizabeth was too much embarrassed to say a word.
She was disappointed, and angry with herself for being so.
My feelings are not puffed about with every attempt to move them.
As for Wickham and Lydia, their characters suffered no revolution from the marriage of her sisters.
When Mrs. Bennet was told of this, she did not express so much satisfaction as her children expected, considering what her anxiety for his life had been before.
It is really too distressing.
This invaluable friend was a very young woman, and very lately married.
Elizabeth, still more affected, was earnest and solemn in her reply; and at length, by repeated assurances that Mr. Darcy was really the object of her choice, by explaining the gradual change which her estimation of him had undergone, relating her absolute certainty that his affection was not the work of a day, but had stood the test of many months' suspense, and enumerating with energy all his good qualities, she did conquer her father's incredulity, and reconcile him to the match.
They look upon it as quite their own, I dare say, whenever that happens."
"By this time, my dearest sister, you have received my hurried letter; I wish this may be more intelligible, but though not confined for time, my head is so bewildered that I cannot answer for being coherent.
I speak nothing but the truth.
The very last evening was spent there; and her ladyship again inquired minutely into the particulars of their journey, gave them directions as to the best method of packing, and was so urgent on the necessity of placing gowns in the only right way, that Maria thought herself obliged, on her return, to undo all the work of the morning, and pack her trunk afresh.
"Indeed, Mamma, you are mistaken," said Elizabeth, blushing for her mother.
Mr. Bennet had very often wished before this period of his life that, instead of spending his whole income, he had laid by an annual sum for the better provision of his children, and of his wife, if she survived him.
Nor did he seem much more at ease; when he spoke, his accent had none of its usual sedateness; and he repeated his inquiries as to the time of her having left Longbourn, and of her having stayed in Derbyshire, so often, and in so hurried a way, as plainly spoke the distraction of his thoughts.
Their father then went on to the library to write, and the girls walked into the breakfast-room.
Miss Bingley saw all this likewise; and, in the imprudence of anger, took the first opportunity of saying, with sneering civility:  "Pray, Miss Eliza, are not the ----shire Militia removed from Meryton?
"How can you contrive to write so even?"
Jane, who was not so light nor so much in the habit of running as Elizabeth, soon lagged behind, while her sister, panting for breath, came up with him, and eagerly cried out:  "Oh, papa, what news--what news?
That is the place to get husbands.
You know I always speak my mind, and I cannot bear the idea of two young women travelling post by themselves.
Almost as soon as I entered the house, I singled you out as the companion of my future life.
They were within twenty yards of each other, and so abrupt was his appearance, that it was impossible to avoid his sight.
One ought not to repine;--but, to be sure, it would have been such a thing for me!
"I do not know how you will ever make him amends for his kindness; or me, either, for that matter.
And, above all, keep Mr. Bennet from fighting.
Though Lydia's short letter to Mrs. F. gave them to understand that they were going to Gretna Green, something was dropped by Denny expressing his belief that W. never intended to go there, or to marry Lydia at all, which was repeated to Colonel F., who, instantly taking the alarm, set off from B. intending to trace their route.
_You_ think it a faithful portrait undoubtedly."
for she only came, I suppose, to tell us the Collinses were well.
After a short pause, her companion added, "You are too generous to trifle with me.
As that was the case, neither Jane, to whom I related the whole, nor I, thought it necessary to make our knowledge public; for of what use could it apparently be to any one, that the good opinion which all the neighbourhood had of him should then be overthrown?
But if I go on, I shall displease you by saying what I think of persons you esteem.
Anything beyond the very neighbourhood of Longbourn, I suppose, would appear far."
Little more than half a day's journey.
I had not thought so very ill of him.
She has no money, no connections, nothing that can tempt him to--she is lost for ever."
That she should have walked three miles so early in the day, in such dirty weather, and by herself, was almost incredible to Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley; and Elizabeth was convinced that they held her in contempt for it.
Let us hope, therefore, that her being there may teach her her own insignificance.
The turn of your countenance I shall never forget, as you said that I could not have addressed you in any possible way that would induce you to accept me."
"If we make haste," said Lydia, as they walked along, "perhaps we may see something of Captain Carter before he goes."
"I beg your pardon, I will try again.
"Excuse my interference--it was kindly meant."
I write without any intention of paining you, or humbling myself, by dwelling on wishes which, for the happiness of both, cannot be too soon forgotten; and the effort which the formation and the perusal of this letter must occasion, should have been spared, had not my character required it to be written and read.
To Rosings he then hastened, to console Lady Catherine and her daughter; and on his return brought back, with great satisfaction, a message from her ladyship, importing that she felt herself so dull as to make her very desirous of having them all to dine with her.
I, who have valued myself on my abilities!
He even looked at her with a smile of affected incredulity.
You were disgusted with the women who were always speaking, and looking, and thinking for _your_ approbation alone.
His pride, in that direction, may be of service, if not to himself, to many others, for it must only deter him from such foul misconduct as I have suffered by.
Have you not heard me say that from his earliest hours he was destined for his cousin?"
But now several minutes elapsed without bringing the sound of his voice; and when occasionally, unable to resist the impulse of curiosity, she raised her eyes to his face, she as often found him looking at Jane as at herself, and frequently on no object but the ground.
He declared himself to be totally unsuspicious of her sister's attachment; and she could not help remembering what Charlotte's opinion had always been.
Lydia came to us; and Wickham had constant admission to the house.
Wickham, Lydia, were all forgotten.
The housekeeper came; a respectable-looking elderly woman, much less fine, and more civil, than she had any notion of finding her.
"No, I believe not."
I had narrowly observed her during the two visits which I had lately made here; and I was convinced of her affection."
There is nothing extravagant in _their_ housekeeping, I dare say."
Elizabeth's spirits soon rising to playfulness again, she wanted Mr. Darcy to account for his having ever fallen in love with her.
Mrs. Bennet had many grievances to relate, and much to complain of.
"I wish it may."
Miss Bingley succeeded no less in the real object of her civility; Mr. Darcy looked up.
How does Georgiana get on, Darcy?"
Mrs. Bennet, we shall have her at Netherfield at last.'
Elizabeth could not refuse, though she foresaw little pleasure in the visit.
Well, I was so frightened I did not know what to do, for my uncle was to give me away; and if we were beyond the hour, we could not be married all day.
cried his wife impatiently.
What an agreeable man Sir William is, Mr. Bingley, is not he?
The idea of Mr. Collins, with all his solemn composure, being run away with by his feelings, made Elizabeth so near laughing, that she could not use the short pause he allowed in any attempt to stop him further, and he continued:  "My reasons for marrying are, first, that I think it a right thing for every clergyman in easy circumstances (like myself) to set the example of matrimony in his parish; secondly, that I am convinced that it will add very greatly to my happiness; and thirdly--which perhaps I ought to have mentioned earlier, that it is the particular advice and recommendation of the very noble lady whom I have the honour of calling patroness.
A house in town!
She likes to have the distinction of rank preserved."
Let me recommend you, however, as a friend, not to give implicit confidence to all his assertions; for as to Mr. Darcy's using him ill, it is perfectly false; for, on the contrary, he has always been remarkably kind to him, though George Wickham has treated Mr. Darcy in a most infamous manner.
"Take care, Lizzy; that speech savours strongly of disappointment."
"What did you say of me, that I did not deserve?
The evening was spent chiefly in talking over Hertfordshire news, and telling again what had already been written; and when it closed, Elizabeth, in the solitude of her chamber, had to meditate upon Charlotte's degree of contentment, to understand her address in guiding, and composure in bearing with, her husband, and to acknowledge that it was all done very well.
why did she come?
"I can much more easily believe Mr. Bingley's being imposed on, than that Mr. Wickham should invent such a history of himself as he gave me last night; names, facts, everything mentioned without ceremony.
Happy shall I be, when his stay at Netherfield is over!"
She tried, however, to compose herself to answer him with patience, when he should have done.
"Sometimes.
Jane will be quite an old maid soon, I declare.
But that is nothing to us.
I shall not be able to keep you--and so I warn you.
"Yes, and I had heard it before.
Mrs. Hurst and her sister scarcely opened their mouths, except to complain of fatigue, and were evidently impatient to have the house to themselves.
"Well, so much the better.
I cannot boast of knowing more than half-a-dozen, in the whole range of my acquaintance, that are really accomplished."
First, that you will allow me the free use of my understanding on the present occasion; and secondly, of my room.
"When you have killed all your own birds, Mr. Bingley," said her mother, "I beg you will come here, and shoot as many as you please on Mr. Bennet's manor.
Mr. Darcy may perhaps have _heard_ of such a place as Gracechurch Street, but he would hardly think a month's ablution enough to cleanse him from its impurities, were he once to enter it; and depend upon it, Mr. Bingley never stirs without him."
There was now employment for the whole party--for though they could not all talk, they could all eat; and the beautiful pyramids of grapes, nectarines, and peaches soon collected them round the table.
They were off Saturday night about twelve, as is conjectured, but were not missed till yesterday morning at eight.
"I _did_ hear, too, that there was a time, when sermon-making was not so palatable to you as it seems to be at present; that you actually declared your resolution of never taking orders, and that the business had been compromised accordingly."
"Mr. Darcy is not to be laughed at!"
In short, I will do my best."
"When I consider," she added in a yet more agitated voice, "that I might have prevented it!
"I have just had a letter from Jane, with such dreadful news.
"Perhaps you mean what I overheard between him and Mr. Robinson; did not I mention it to you?
"_You_ were Mr. Bingley's first choice."
That she should have walked three miles so early in the day, in such dirty weather, and by herself, was almost incredible to Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley; and Elizabeth was convinced that they held her in contempt for it.
They had often attempted to do it before, but it was a subject on which Mrs. Bennet was beyond the reach of reason, and she continued to rail bitterly against the cruelty of settling an estate away from a family of five daughters, in favour of a man whom nobody cared anything about.
I was angry perhaps at first, but my anger soon began to take a proper direction."
"But perhaps you would like to read it."
Indeed, Mr. Darcy, it is very ungenerous in you to mention all that you knew to my disadvantage in Hertfordshire--and, give me leave to say, very impolitic too--for it is provoking me to retaliate, and such things may come out as will shock your relations to hear."
I thought him very sly;--he hardly ever mentioned your name.
You dare not, you cannot deny, that you have been the principal, if not the only means of dividing them from each other--of exposing one to the censure of the world for caprice and instability, and the other to its derision for disappointed hopes, and involving them both in misery of the acutest kind."
"And do you like her?"
Not these two or three years, perhaps."
Was it merely to ride to Longbourn and be embarrassed?
"If I had been able," said she, "to carry my point in going to Brighton, with all my family, _this_ would not have happened; but poor dear Lydia had nobody to take care of her.
I have nothing to say against _him_; he is a most interesting young man; and if he had the fortune he ought to have, I should think you could not do better.
My conduct may, I fear, be objectionable in having accepted my dismission from your daughter's lips instead of your own.
Won't it, Kitty?"
She hardly knew how to suppose that she could be an object of admiration to so great a man; and yet that he should look at her because he disliked her, was still more strange.
"Sir, you quite misunderstand me," said Mrs. Bennet, alarmed.
Their brother, indeed, was the only one of the party whom she could regard with any complacency.
I believed you to be wishing, expecting my addresses."
And I think you will agree with me, in considering the removal from that corps as highly advisable, both on his account and my niece's.
Mr. Bennet missed his second daughter exceedingly; his affection for her drew him oftener from home than anything else could do.
I am very glad you liked her.
"By all means," cried Bingley; "let us hear all the particulars, not forgetting their comparative height and size; for that will have more weight in the argument, Miss Bennet, than you may be aware of.
But, however this remonstrance might have staggered or delayed his determination, I do not suppose that it would ultimately have prevented the marriage, had it not been seconded by the assurance that I hesitated not in giving, of your sister's indifference.
At that moment, Sir William Lucas appeared close to them, meaning to pass through the set to the other side of the room; but on perceiving Mr. Darcy, he stopped with a bow of superior courtesy to compliment him on his dancing and his partner.
Jane will be quite an old maid soon, I declare.
Everything, however, went on smoothly, and was finally settled according to Charlotte's first sketch.
Everything nourishes what is strong already.
I must have my share in the conversation if you are speaking of music.
He was on one side of her mother.
And even when it was settled that Lydia should go with Mrs. Forster, the necessity of opening her eyes to his character never occurred to me.
Your portion is unhappily so small that it will in all likelihood undo the effects of your loveliness and amiable qualifications.
My dearest Lizzy, do but consider in what a disgraceful light it places Mr. Darcy, to be treating his father's favourite in such a manner, one whom his father had promised to provide for.
Very odd!
Among those who are at all his equals in consequence, he is a very different man from what he is to the less prosperous.
But I believe I must date it from my first seeing his beautiful grounds at Pemberley."
"I have already told her so once, by your desire."
but from what the report of their engagement could originate, Elizabeth was at a loss to imagine; till she recollected that _his_ being the intimate friend of Bingley, and _her_ being the sister of Jane, was enough, at a time when the expectation of one wedding made everybody eager for another, to supply the idea.
but their removing from the chaise into a hackney coach is such a presumption!
As they walked across the hall towards the river, Elizabeth turned back to look again; her uncle and aunt stopped also, and while the former was conjecturing as to the date of the building, the owner of it himself suddenly came forward from the road, which led behind it to the stables.
He was struggling for the appearance of composure, and would not open his lips till he believed himself to have attained it.
"I have never heard him say so; but it is probable that he may spend very little of his time there in the future.
"Your great men often are; and therefore I shall not take him at his word, as he might change his mind another day, and warn me off his grounds."
The whist party soon afterwards breaking up, the players gathered round the other table and Mr. Collins took his station between his cousin Elizabeth and Mrs. Phillips.
She talked on, therefore, without interruption from any of them, till they were joined by Mr. Collins, who entered the room with an air more stately than usual, and on perceiving whom, she said to the girls, "Now, I do insist upon it, that you, all of you, hold your tongues, and let me and Mr. Collins have a little conversation together."
She will be married!
They lagged behind, while Elizabeth, Kitty, and Darcy were to entertain each other.
"But if he returns no more this winter, my choice will never be required.
Lady Catherine continued her remarks on Elizabeth's performance, mixing with them many instructions on execution and taste.
Mary and Kitty, thank Heaven, are quite well."
Georgiana had the highest opinion in the world of Elizabeth; though at first she often listened with an astonishment bordering on alarm at her lively, sportive, manner of talking to her brother.
"I do not know.
Darcy was fixed in astonishment.
To the girls, who could not listen to their cousin, and who had nothing to do but to wish for an instrument, and examine their own indifferent imitations of china on the mantelpiece, the interval of waiting appeared very long.
"I am the less surprised at what has happened," replied Sir William, "from that knowledge of what the manners of the great really are, which my situation in life has allowed me to acquire.
"Yes--but as it happens, they are all of them very clever."
She was _now_ struck with the impropriety of such communications to a stranger, and wondered it had escaped her before.
"But, my dear, you must indeed go and see Mr. Bingley when he comes into the neighbourhood."
When Jane and Elizabeth were alone, the former, who had been cautious in her praise of Mr. Bingley before, expressed to her sister just how very much she admired him.
Your alliance will be a disgrace; your name will never even be mentioned by any of us."
She will follow wherever Lydia leads.
Elizabeth looked with unaffected astonishment.
They owed the restoration of Lydia, her character, every thing, to him.
Wretched, wretched mistake!"
The distance is nothing when one has a motive; only three miles.
Have you not heard me say that from his earliest hours he was destined for his cousin?"
"Yes--if Darcy does not put it off again.
As no objection was made to the young people's engagement with their aunt, and all Mr. Collins's scruples of leaving Mr. and Mrs. Bennet for a single evening during his visit were most steadily resisted, the coach conveyed him and his five cousins at a suitable hour to Meryton; and the girls had the pleasure of hearing, as they entered the drawing-room, that Mr. Wickham had accepted their uncle's invitation, and was then in the house.
Bingley expressed great pleasure in the certainty of seeing Elizabeth again, having still a great deal to say to her, and many inquiries to make after all their Hertfordshire friends.
On Saturday morning Elizabeth and Mr. Collins met for breakfast a few minutes before the others appeared; and he took the opportunity of paying the parting civilities which he deemed indispensably necessary.
I guessed as much."
my dear father, can you suppose it possible that they will not be censured and despised wherever they are known, and that their sisters will not be often involved in the disgrace?"
On opening the door, she perceived her sister and Bingley standing together over the hearth, as if engaged in earnest conversation; and had this led to no suspicion, the faces of both, as they hastily turned round and moved away from each other, would have told it all.
no."
But self, though it would intrude, could not engross her.
About the middle of the next day, as she was in her room getting ready for a walk, a sudden noise below seemed to speak the whole house in confusion; and, after listening a moment, she heard somebody running up stairs in a violent hurry, and calling loudly after her.
"Oh, lord!
To know that she had the power of revealing what would so exceedingly astonish Jane, and must, at the same time, so highly gratify whatever of her own vanity she had not yet been able to reason away, was such a temptation to openness as nothing could have conquered but the state of indecision in which she remained as to the extent of what she should communicate; and her fear, if she once entered on the subject, of being hurried into repeating something of Bingley which might only grieve her sister further.
"I cannot be so easily reconciled to myself.
I often tell my other girls they are nothing to _her_.
"I am sorry to hear _that_; but why did not you tell me that before?
The prospect of the Netherfield ball was extremely agreeable to every female of the family.
It was a rational scheme, to be sure!
Some people call him proud; but I am sure I never saw anything of it.
How merry we shall be together when we meet!"
She wrote even to Jane on the occasion, to express her delight, and repeat all her former professions of regard.
I knew how it would be.
"Take care, Lizzy; that speech savours strongly of disappointment."
Such formidable accounts of her ladyship, and her manner of living, quite frightened Maria Lucas who had been little used to company, and she looked forward to her introduction at Rosings with as much apprehension as her father had done to his presentation at St. James's.
Her performance was pleasing, though by no means capital.
I am very glad you have somebody who thinks of these things.
This room was my late master's favourite room, and these miniatures are just as they used to be then.
I thought we never should have got into the coach.
Indeed, Mr. Darcy, it is very ungenerous in you to mention all that you knew to my disadvantage in Hertfordshire--and, give me leave to say, very impolitic too--for it is provoking me to retaliate, and such things may come out as will shock your relations to hear."
But, my dear sister, though the event has proved you right, do not think me obstinate if I still assert that, considering what her behaviour was, my confidence was as natural as your suspicion.
You could not make _me_ happy, and I am convinced that I am the last woman in the world who could make you so.
As for Jane, _her_ anxiety under this suspense was, of course, more painful than Elizabeth's, but whatever she felt she was desirous of concealing, and between herself and Elizabeth, therefore, the subject was never alluded to.
It was dated from Rosings, at eight o'clock in the morning, and was as follows:--  "Be not alarmed, madam, on receiving this letter, by the apprehension of its containing any repetition of those sentiments or renewal of those offers which were last night so disgusting to you.
Who could have imagined that we should receive an invitation to dine there (an invitation, moreover, including the whole party) so immediately after your arrival!"
She felt all the perverseness of the mischance that should bring him where no one else was brought, and, to prevent its ever happening again, took care to inform him at first that it was a favourite haunt of hers.
"How unlucky that you should have a reasonable answer to give, and that I should be so reasonable as to admit it!
"No, my dear, you had better go on horseback, because it seems likely to rain; and then you must stay all night."
"You shall hear then--but prepare yourself for something very dreadful.
He has a very satirical eye, and if I do not begin by being impertinent myself, I shall soon grow afraid of him."
As she had heard no carriage, she thought it not unlikely to be Lady Catherine, and under that apprehension was putting away her half-finished letter that she might escape all impertinent questions, when the door opened, and, to her very great surprise, Mr. Darcy, and Mr. Darcy only, entered the room.
"It taught me to hope," said he, "as I had scarcely ever allowed myself to hope before.
She cared for none of her friends; she wanted no help of his; she would not hear of leaving Wickham.
what is the matter?"
It is settled between us already, that we are to be the happiest couple in the world.
While Sir William was with them, Mr. Collins devoted his morning to driving him out in his gig, and showing him the country; but when he went away, the whole family returned to their usual employments, and Elizabeth was thankful to find that they did not see more of her cousin by the alteration, for the chief of the time between breakfast and dinner was now passed by him either at work in the garden or in reading and writing, and looking out of the window in his own book-room, which fronted the road.
It was to be such a secret!"
The family were assembled in the breakfast room to receive them.
My situation in life, my connections with the family of de Bourgh, and my relationship to your own, are circumstances highly in my favour; and you should take it into further consideration, that in spite of your manifold attractions, it is by no means certain that another offer of marriage may ever be made you.
Mr. Darcy has not authorised me to make his communication public.
On the strength of Darcy's regard, Bingley had the firmest reliance, and of his judgement the highest opinion.
But we are all liable to error.
But I dare not hope it.
She could think of nothing more to say; but if he wished to converse with her, he might have better success.
I am very, very sorry.
The note was immediately dispatched, and its contents as quickly complied with.
You taught me a lesson, hard indeed at first, but most advantageous.
You know I always speak my mind, and I cannot bear the idea of two young women travelling post by themselves.
"Yes; these four evenings have enabled them to ascertain that they both like Vingt-un better than Commerce; but with respect to any other leading characteristic, I do not imagine that much has been unfolded."
He is now, perhaps, sorry for what he has done, and anxious to re-establish a character.
All was acknowledged, and half the night spent in conversation.
Elizabeth hesitated, but her knees trembled under her and she felt how little would be gained by her attempting to pursue them.
She was very equal, therefore, to address Mr. Bingley on the subject of the ball, and abruptly reminded him of his promise; adding, that it would be the most shameful thing in the world if he did not keep it.
I will only add, God bless you.
certainly," cried his faithful assistant, "no one can be really esteemed accomplished who does not greatly surpass what is usually met with.
Calling back the servant, therefore, she commissioned him, though in so breathless an accent as made her almost unintelligible, to fetch his master and mistress home instantly.
"I am sorry you think so; but if that be the case, there can at least be no want of subject.
Elizabeth now began to revive.
Lydia laughed, and said:  "Aye, that is just like your formality and discretion.
said he, as he joined her.
"And do you like her?"
She follows him to town in hope of keeping him there, and tries to persuade you that he does not care about you."
Elizabeth was now to see Mr. Wickham for the last time.
"I wish I could call her amiable.
He absolutely started, and for a moment seemed immovable from surprise; but shortly recovering himself, advanced towards the party, and spoke to Elizabeth, if not in terms of perfect composure, at least of perfect civility.
And will you give yourself the trouble of carrying similar assurances to his creditors in Meryton, of whom I shall subjoin a list according to his information?
Could he expect that her friends would not step forward?
He does not want abilities.
Mr. and Mrs. Collins have a comfortable income, but not such a one as will allow of frequent journeys--and I am persuaded my friend would not call herself _near_ her family under less than _half_ the present distance."
Had she found Jane in any apparent danger, Mrs. Bennet would have been very miserable; but being satisfied on seeing her that her illness was not alarming, she had no wish of her recovering immediately, as her restoration to health would probably remove her from Netherfield.
"Aye--because she asked him at last how he liked Netherfield, and he could not help answering her; but she said he seemed quite angry at being spoke to."
To the rest of the family they paid little attention; avoiding Mrs. Bennet as much as possible, saying not much to Elizabeth, and nothing at all to the others.
"And may I ask--" said Elizabeth; "but the terms, I suppose, must be complied with."
"True.
I am sure we owe him no such particular civility as to be obliged to say nothing _he_ may not like to hear."
"If you _will_ thank me," he replied, "let it be for yourself alone.
Allow me, by the way, to observe, my fair cousin, that I do not reckon the notice and kindness of Lady Catherine de Bourgh as among the least of the advantages in my power to offer.
and it is such a good joke, too, that you should have gone this morning and never said a word about it till now."
The congratulatory letter which Elizabeth received from Lydia on her marriage, explained to her that, by his wife at least, if not by himself, such a hope was cherished.
Was it merely to ride to Longbourn and be embarrassed?
Lady Lucas began directly to calculate, with more interest than the matter had ever excited before, how many years longer Mr. Bennet was likely to live; and Sir William gave it as his decided opinion, that whenever Mr. Collins should be in possession of the Longbourn estate, it would be highly expedient that both he and his wife should make their appearance at St. James's.
It is unaccountable!
Mr. Collins on his return highly gratified Mrs. Bennet by admiring Mrs. Phillips's manners and politeness.
Can there be any other opinion on the subject?"
Choose properly, choose a gentlewoman for _my_ sake; and for your _own_, let her be an active, useful sort of person, not brought up high, but able to make a small income go a good way.
I feel as if I had never done you justice, or loved you as you deserve."
A small sum could not do all this."
Elizabeth, at work in the opposite corner, saw it all with great delight.
"No, my dear, I think not.
There was nothing of presumption or folly in Bingley that could provoke his ridicule, or disgust him into silence; and he was more communicative, and less eccentric, than the other had ever seen him.
But we are all liable to error.
Jane and Elizabeth looked at each other, and the waiter was told he need not stay.
When tea was over, Mr. Hurst reminded his sister-in-law of the card-table--but in vain.
I shall never forget her appearance this morning.
Tease him--laugh at him.
"Has she been presented?
Mr. Bennet saw that her whole heart was in the subject, and affectionately taking her hand said in reply:  "Do not make yourself uneasy, my love.
He sat with them above an hour, and was in remarkably good spirits.
said Jane, faintly smiling.
Her father, captivated by youth and beauty, and that appearance of good humour which youth and beauty generally give, had married a woman whose weak understanding and illiberal mind had very early in their marriage put an end to all real affection for her.
Elizabeth, on her side, had much to do.
"Will you give me leave to defer your raptures till I write again?
It will not do.
You would have been less amiable in my eyes had there _not_ been this little unwillingness; but allow me to assure you, that I have your respected mother's permission for this address.
and turning round he looked for a moment at Elizabeth, till catching her eye, he withdrew his own and coldly said: "She is tolerable, but not handsome enough to tempt _me_; I am in no humour at present to give consequence to young ladies who are slighted by other men.
She would not even wish for a renewal of his attentions.
To work in this garden was one of his most respectable pleasures; and Elizabeth admired the command of countenance with which Charlotte talked of the healthfulness of the exercise, and owned she encouraged it as much as possible.
The subjection in which his father had brought him up had given him originally great humility of manner; but it was now a good deal counteracted by the self-conceit of a weak head, living in retirement, and the consequential feelings of early and unexpected prosperity.
He began to wish to know more of her, and as a step towards conversing with her himself, attended to her conversation with others.
He could even listen to Sir William Lucas, when he complimented him on carrying away the brightest jewel of the country, and expressed his hopes of their all meeting frequently at St. James's, with very decent composure.
GARDINER."
"Sometimes.
I shall send for my clothes when I get to Longbourn; but I wish you would tell Sally to mend a great slit in my worked muslin gown before they are packed up.
"To be sure, Lizzy," said her aunt, "he is not so handsome as Wickham; or, rather, he has not Wickham's countenance, for his features are perfectly good.
Could you expect me to rejoice in the inferiority of your connections?--to congratulate myself on the hope of relations, whose condition in life is so decidedly beneath my own?"
How grievous then was the thought that, of a situation so desirable in every respect, so replete with advantage, so promising for happiness, Jane had been deprived, by the folly and indecorum of her own family!
"Yes, or I will never see her again."
But what is that to me?
Every disposition of the ground was good; and she looked on the whole scene, the river, the trees scattered on its banks and the winding of the valley, as far as she could trace it, with delight.
   It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife.
While the contents of the first letter remained in her mind, she was all surprise--all astonishment that Wickham should marry a girl whom it was impossible he could marry for money; and how Lydia could ever have attached him had appeared incomprehensible.
"Has your governess left you?"
There will not be the smallest occasion for your coming to town again; therefore stay quiet at Longbourn, and depend on my diligence and care.
It was the last of the regiment's stay in Meryton, and all the young ladies in the neighbourhood were drooping apace.
He believed him to be imprudent and extravagant.
Nor was her respect for him, though it made her more quiet, at all likely to make her more elegant.
Nothing but concern for Elizabeth could enable Bingley to keep his countenance.
To be sure London was rather thin, but, however, the Little Theatre was open.
And we all know that Wickham has every charm of person and address that can captivate a woman."
My objections to the marriage were not merely those which I last night acknowledged to have the utmost force of passion to put aside, in my own case; the want of connection could not be so great an evil to my friend as to me.
But, perhaps, his sister does as well for the present, and, as she is under his sole care, he may do what he likes with her."
While the family were in this confusion, Charlotte Lucas came to spend the day with them.
"Oh!"
"Ah, you do not know what I suffer."
"You may well be surprised, Miss Bennet, at such an assertion, after seeing, as you probably might, the very cold manner of our meeting yesterday.
You must know that I am thinking of his marrying one of them."
As he spoke there was a sort of smile which Elizabeth fancied she understood; he must be supposing her to be thinking of Jane and Netherfield, and she blushed as she answered:  "I do not mean to say that a woman may not be settled too near her family.
But when the gentlemen entered, Jane was no longer the first object; Miss Bingley's eyes were instantly turned toward Darcy, and she had something to say to him before he had advanced many steps.
If such goodness does not make her miserable now, she will never deserve to be happy!
He then handed her in, Maria followed, and the door was on the point of being closed, when he suddenly reminded them, with some consternation, that they had hitherto forgotten to leave any message for the ladies at Rosings.
dear, yes; but you must own she is very plain.
His arrival was soon known at the Parsonage; for Mr. Collins was walking the whole morning within view of the lodges opening into Hunsford Lane, in order to have the earliest assurance of it, and after making his bow as the carriage turned into the Park, hurried home with the great intelligence.
It would vex me, indeed, to see you again the dupe of Miss Bingley's pretended regard."
The Lucases are very artful people indeed, sister.
"This is an evening of wonders, indeed!
His plan did not vary on seeing them.
But nothing can be done--I know very well that nothing can be done.
Stop me whilst you can."
She said no more, and they went down the other dance and parted in silence; and on each side dissatisfied, though not to an equal degree, for in Darcy's breast there was a tolerable powerful feeling towards her, which soon procured her pardon, and directed all his anger against another.
There will not be the smallest occasion for your coming to town again; therefore stay quiet at Longbourn, and depend on my diligence and care.
Nothing of the past was recollected with pain; and Lydia led voluntarily to subjects which her sisters would not have alluded to for the world.
Are the others coming out?"
The power of doing anything with quickness is always prized much by the possessor, and often without any attention to the imperfection of the performance.
We must not expect a lively young man to be always so guarded and circumspect.
But as no such delicacy restrained her mother, an hour seldom passed in which she did not talk of Bingley, express her impatience for his arrival, or even require Jane to confess that if he did not come back she would think herself very ill used.
It has been my own doing, and I ought to feel it."
GARDINER."
But I am at his disposal.
"I should never have said Mrs. Collins was settled _near_ her family."
We must not make him desperate."
"It did.
What a meeting for her, when she first sees my aunt!"
"Perhaps he must, if he sees enough of her.
Do you not consider that a connection with you must disgrace him in the eyes of everybody?"
Never, even in the company of his dear friends at Netherfield, or his dignified relations at Rosings, had she seen him so desirous to please, so free from self-consequence or unbending reserve, as now, when no importance could result from the success of his endeavours, and when even the acquaintance of those to whom his attentions were addressed would draw down the ridicule and censure of the ladies both of Netherfield and Rosings.
Elizabeth could hardly help smiling as she assured her that had not been the case.
This roused a general astonishment; and he had the pleasure of being eagerly questioned by his wife and his five daughters at once.
I shall see her again!
Nobody wants him to come.
But she is very young; she has never been taught to think on serious subjects; and for the last half-year, nay, for a twelvemonth--she has been given up to nothing but amusement and vanity.
Convinced as Elizabeth now was that Miss Bingley's dislike of her had originated in jealousy, she could not help feeling how unwelcome her appearance at Pemberley must be to her, and was curious to know with how much civility on that lady's side the acquaintance would now be renewed.
He begged to know further particulars of what he was indebted to his brother, but was too angry with Lydia to send any message to her.
"But I was embarrassed."
There can be no love in all this.
"In what an amiable light does this place him!"
From what she had said of her resolution to prevent their marriage, it occurred to Elizabeth that she must meditate an application to her nephew; and how _he_ might take a similar representation of the evils attached to a connection with her, she dared not pronounce.
Her ladyship seemed pleased with the idea; and you may imagine that I am happy on every occasion to offer those little delicate compliments which are always acceptable to ladies.
"That is a question which I hardly know how to answer.
It was unpardonable.
"I cannot comprehend the neglect of a family library in such days as these."
The pause was to Elizabeth's feelings dreadful.
At first there seemed danger of Lydia's engrossing him entirely, for she was a most determined talker; but being likewise extremely fond of lottery tickets, she soon grew too much interested in the game, too eager in making bets and exclaiming after prizes to have attention for anyone in particular.
Let me hear what it is."
"What a letter is this, to be written at such a moment!
The children have been wanting me this half hour.
There was now employment for the whole party--for though they could not all talk, they could all eat; and the beautiful pyramids of grapes, nectarines, and peaches soon collected them round the table.
Your own heart, your own conscience, must tell you why I come."
And as for wedding clothes, do not let them wait for that, but tell Lydia she shall have as much money as she chooses to buy them, after they are married.
Some of them were to dine with the Phillipses the next day, and their aunt promised to make her husband call on Mr. Wickham, and give him an invitation also, if the family from Longbourn would come in the evening.
At that instant, she felt that years of happiness could not make Jane or herself amends for moments of such painful confusion.
"And this," cried Darcy, as he walked with quick steps across the room, "is your opinion of me!
Anxious and uneasy, the period which passed in the drawing-room, before the gentlemen came, was wearisome and dull to a degree that almost made her uncivil.
I shall be glad to have the library to myself as soon as may be."
"I know little of the game at present," said he, "but I shall be glad to improve myself, for in my situation in life--" Mrs. Phillips was very glad for his compliance, but could not wait for his reason.
"Oh!
She still cherished a very tender affection for Bingley.
And rising as she thus spoke, she would have quitted the room, had Mr. Collins not thus addressed her:  "When I do myself the honour of speaking to you next on the subject, I shall hope to receive a more favourable answer than you have now given me; though I am far from accusing you of cruelty at present, because I know it to be the established custom of your sex to reject a man on the first application, and perhaps you have even now said as much to encourage my suit as would be consistent with the true delicacy of the female character."
Darcy?"
What shall we do with him?
"But you see that Jane," said her aunt, "does not think so very ill of Wickham as to believe him capable of the attempt."
His family knew him to be, on all common occasions, a most negligent and dilatory correspondent; but at such a time they had hoped for exertion.
I am so grieved for him!
"Oh!
If he did shrug his shoulders, it was not till Sir William was out of sight.
Mr. Darcy's shameful boast of what misery he had been able to inflict, gave her a keener sense of her sister's sufferings.
"It taught me to hope," said he, "as I had scarcely ever allowed myself to hope before.
The Lucases are very artful people indeed, sister.
She shall hear my opinion."
The ladies of Longbourn soon waited on those of Netherfield.
"You write uncommonly fast."
Importance may sometimes be purchased too dearly.
As to what restraint the apprehensions of disgrace in the corps might throw on a dishonourable elopement with her, I am not able to judge; for I know nothing of the effects that such a step might produce.
"All young ladies accomplished!
But it was a hope shortly checked by other considerations, and she soon felt that even her vanity was insufficient, when required to depend on his affection for her--for a woman who had already refused him--as able to overcome a sentiment so natural as abhorrence against relationship with Wickham.
Kitty, who took all these threats in a serious light, began to cry.
Elizabeth tried hard to dissuade him from such a scheme, assuring him that Mr. Darcy would consider his addressing him without introduction as an impertinent freedom, rather than a compliment to his aunt; that it was not in the least necessary there should be any notice on either side; and that if it were, it must belong to Mr. Darcy, the superior in consequence, to begin the acquaintance.
"Whatever can give his sister any pleasure is sure to be done in a moment.
It was not all settled before Monday: as soon as it was, the express was sent off to Longbourn.
He knows of my being in town, I am certain, from something she said herself; and yet it would seem, by her manner of talking, as if she wanted to persuade herself that he is really partial to Miss Darcy.
But the attention of every lady was soon caught by a young man, whom they had never seen before, of most gentlemanlike appearance, walking with another officer on the other side of the way.
"Shall we ask him why a man of sense and education, and who has lived in the world, is ill qualified to recommend himself to strangers?"
On the gentlemen's appearing, her colour increased; yet she received them with tolerable ease, and with a propriety of behaviour equally free from any symptom of resentment or any unnecessary complaisance.
She often tried to provoke Darcy into disliking her guest, by talking of their supposed marriage, and planning his happiness in such an alliance.
Catherine and Lydia had information for them of a different sort.
She longed to see Mrs. Phillips, the Lucases, and all their other neighbours, and to hear herself called "Mrs. Wickham" by each of them; and in the mean time, she went after dinner to show her ring, and boast of being married, to Mrs. Hill and the two housemaids.
No one who has ever seen you together can doubt his affection.
I am very, very sorry.
When breakfast was over they were joined by the sisters; and Elizabeth began to like them herself, when she saw how much affection and solicitude they showed for Jane.
But above all, above respect and esteem, there was a motive within her of goodwill which could not be overlooked.
then--some time or other we shall be happy to hear you.
It was, moreover, such a promising thing for her younger daughters, as Jane's marrying so greatly must throw them in the way of other rich men; and lastly, it was so pleasant at her time of life to be able to consign her single daughters to the care of their sister, that she might not be obliged to go into company more than she liked.
Mrs. Bennet, with great civility, begged her ladyship to take some refreshment; but Lady Catherine very resolutely, and not very politely, declined eating anything; and then, rising up, said to Elizabeth,  "Miss Bennet, there seemed to be a prettyish kind of a little wilderness on one side of your lawn.
"Do you not think it would be a proper compliment to the place?"
"Wickham, perhaps, is my favourite; but I think I shall like _your_ husband quite as well as Jane's."
But you are always giving _her_ the preference."
"Whatever can give his sister any pleasure is sure to be done in a moment.
When coffee was over, Colonel Fitzwilliam reminded Elizabeth of having promised to play to him; and she sat down directly to the instrument.
The situation of affairs in the Longbourn family could not be long a secret.
Lady Lucas was a very good kind of woman, not too clever to be a valuable neighbour to Mrs. Bennet.
Such relief, however, as it was in her power to afford, by the practice of what might be called economy in her own private expences, she frequently sent them.
What a delightful library you have at Pemberley, Mr.
"The country," said Darcy, "can in general supply but a few subjects for such a study.
It is not likely that money should be very abundant on either side; and it might strike them that they could be more economically, though less expeditiously, married in London than in Scotland."
And with regard to the resentment of his family, or the indignation of the world, if the former _were_ excited by his marrying me, it would not give me one moment's concern--and the world in general would have too much sense to join in the scorn."
The walk being here less sheltered than on the other side, allowed them to see him before they met.
I am afraid you will not be able to make it out, but I hardly know what I have written."
She seems perfectly happy, however, and in a prudential light it is certainly a very good match for her."
"MY DEAR BROTHER,  "At last I am able to send you some tidings of my niece, and such as, upon the whole, I hope it will give you satisfaction.
Lydia--the humiliation, the misery she was bringing on them all, soon swallowed up every private care; and covering her face with her handkerchief, Elizabeth was soon lost to everything else; and, after a pause of several minutes, was only recalled to a sense of her situation by the voice of her companion, who, in a manner which, though it spoke compassion, spoke likewise restraint, said, "I am afraid you have been long desiring my absence, nor have I anything to plead in excuse of my stay, but real, though unavailing concern.
The soup was fifty times better than what we had at the Lucases' last week; and even Mr. Darcy acknowledged, that the partridges were remarkably well done; and I suppose he has two or three French cooks at least.
"It is no such thing.
Her father was walking about the room, looking grave and anxious.
Words were insufficient for the elevation of his feelings; and he was obliged to walk about the room, while Elizabeth tried to unite civility and truth in a few short sentences.
My faults, according to this calculation, are heavy indeed!
Allow me, by the way, to observe, my fair cousin, that I do not reckon the notice and kindness of Lady Catherine de Bourgh as among the least of the advantages in my power to offer.
To Pemberley, therefore, they were to go.
It is wonderful how many families I have been the means of supplying in that way.
This part of his intelligence, though unheard by Lydia, was caught by Elizabeth, and, as it assured her that Darcy was not less answerable for Wickham's absence than if her first surmise had been just, every feeling of displeasure against the former was so sharpened by immediate disappointment, that she could hardly reply with tolerable civility to the polite inquiries which he directly afterwards approached to make.
"_Mr.
But the case is this: We are not rich enough or grand enough for them; and she is the more anxious to get Miss Darcy for her brother, from the notion that when there has been _one_ intermarriage, she may have less trouble in achieving a second; in which there is certainly some ingenuity, and I dare say it would succeed, if Miss de Bourgh were out of the way.
To be sure, it would have been more for the advantage of conversation had Miss Lydia Bennet come upon the town; or, as the happiest alternative, been secluded from the world, in some distant farmhouse.
He who, she had been persuaded, would avoid her as his greatest enemy, seemed, on this accidental meeting, most eager to preserve the acquaintance, and without any indelicate display of regard, or any peculiarity of manner, where their two selves only were concerned, was soliciting the good opinion of her friends, and bent on making her known to his sister.
Why did you not seek legal redress?"
The first two dances, however, brought a return of distress; they were dances of mortification.
When Lydia went away she promised to write very often and very minutely to her mother and Kitty; but her letters were always long expected, and always very short.
It cannot last long.
He joined them on their entering the town, and attended them to their aunt's where his regret and vexation, and the concern of everybody, was well talked over.
In a country neighbourhood you move in a very confined and unvarying society."
But it ought to be done, and if you will give me a sheet of paper, it shall be done directly."
Mrs. Bennet's best comfort was that Mr. Bingley must be down again in the summer.
She had always spoken to him as she would to any other gentleman; she made not the smallest objection to his joining in the society of the neighbourhood nor to his leaving the parish occasionally for a week or two, to visit his relations.
What is it about?
She had never seen a place for which nature had done more, or where natural beauty had been so little counteracted by an awkward taste.
By Elizabeth's instructions, she began to comprehend that a woman may take liberties with her husband which a brother will not always allow in a sister more than ten years younger than himself.
Miss Bingley's civility to Elizabeth increased at last very rapidly, as well as her affection for Jane; and when they parted, after assuring the latter of the pleasure it would always give her to see her either at Longbourn or Netherfield, and embracing her most tenderly, she even shook hands with the former.
As yet, she cannot even be certain of the degree of her own regard nor of its reasonableness.
His sisters were anxious for his having an estate of his own; but, though he was now only established as a tenant, Miss Bingley was by no means unwilling to preside at his table--nor was Mrs. Hurst, who had married a man of more fashion than fortune, less disposed to consider his house as her home when it suited her.
But now several minutes elapsed without bringing the sound of his voice; and when occasionally, unable to resist the impulse of curiosity, she raised her eyes to his face, she as often found him looking at Jane as at herself, and frequently on no object but the ground.
It is excellent news--capital news--and about a certain person we all like!"
And when we _do_ return, it shall not be like other travellers, without being able to give one accurate idea of anything.
He then went away, and Miss Bingley was left to all the satisfaction of having forced him to say what gave no one any pain but herself.
He knows where we live.
My situation in life, my connections with the family of de Bourgh, and my relationship to your own, are circumstances highly in my favour; and you should take it into further consideration, that in spite of your manifold attractions, it is by no means certain that another offer of marriage may ever be made you.
Had he done his duty in that respect, Lydia need not have been indebted to her uncle for whatever of honour or credit could now be purchased for her.
When first he came in, he had spoken to her but little; but every five minutes seemed to be giving her more of his attention.
She attracted him more than he liked--and Miss Bingley was uncivil to _her_, and more teasing than usual to himself.
"You are too hasty, sir," she cried.
Mr. Gardiner did not attempt to conceal these particulars from the Longbourn family.
I know that you could be neither happy nor respectable, unless you truly esteemed your husband; unless you looked up to him as a superior.
"You are very kind, I am sure; and I wish with all my heart it may prove so, for else they will be destitute enough.
You are charmingly grouped, and appear to uncommon advantage.
Something, he supposed, might be attributed to his connection with them, but yet he had never met with so much attention in the whole course of his life.
"No--why should he?
"A little sea-bathing would set me up forever."
I can recall nothing worse.
Colonel Fitzwilliam's occasionally laughing at his stupidity, proved that he was generally different, which her own knowledge of him could not have told her; and as she would liked to have believed this change the effect of love, and the object of that love her friend Eliza, she set herself seriously to work to find it out.
How Wickham and Lydia were to be supported in tolerable independence, she could not imagine.
Make haste, make haste.
It was necessary to laugh, when she would rather have cried.
Miss Bingley's attention was quite as much engaged in watching Mr. Darcy's progress through _his_ book, as in reading her own; and she was perpetually either making some inquiry, or looking at his page.
He is rich, to be sure, and you may have more fine clothes and fine carriages than Jane.
How I long to see her!
"You may well warn me against such an evil.
how I wanted you!"
"Good God!
"As to her _younger_ daughters, she could not take upon her to say--she could not positively answer--but she did not _know_ of any prepossession; her _eldest_ daughter, she must just mention--she felt it incumbent on her to hint, was likely to be very soon engaged."
Miss Bingley moved with some alacrity to the pianoforte; and, after a polite request that Elizabeth would lead the way which the other as politely and more earnestly negatived, she seated herself.
"Take whatever you like, and get away."
You may have drawn him in."
My temper I dare not vouch for.
The introduction, however, was immediately made; and as she named their relationship to herself, she stole a sly look at him, to see how he bore it, and was not without the expectation of his decamping as fast as he could from such disgraceful companions.
"Well, mamma," said she, when they were all returned to the breakfast room, "and what do you think of my husband?
The pause was to Elizabeth's feelings dreadful.
"How can you talk so?"
"I can readily believe," answered he gravely, "that reports may vary greatly with respect to me; and I could wish, Miss Bennet, that you were not to sketch my character at the present moment, as there is reason to fear that the performance would reflect no credit on either."
Indeed he has no improper pride.
"I have not a doubt of Mr. Bingley's sincerity," said Elizabeth warmly; "but you must excuse my not being convinced by assurances only.
"_You_ are dancing with the only handsome girl in the room," said Mr. Darcy, looking at the eldest Miss Bennet.
Elizabeth would wonder, and probably would blame her; and though her resolution was not to be shaken, her feelings must be hurt by such a disapprobation.
"She is a most charming young lady indeed.
But do you always write such charming long letters to her, Mr.
"And if not able to please himself in the arrangement, he has at least pleasure in the great power of choice.
Elizabeth felt herself completely taken in.
If your feelings are still what they were last April, tell me so at once.
The world is blinded by his fortune and consequence, or frightened by his high and imposing manners, and sees him only as he chooses to be seen."
If you'll believe me, I did not once put my foot out of doors, though I was there a fortnight.
"Lady Catherine has been of infinite use, which ought to make her happy, for she loves to be of use.
In another minute, Mr. Bingley, but without seeming to have noticed what passed, took leave and rode on with his friend.
Lizzy, why am I thus singled from my family, and blessed above them all!
With the Gardiners, they were always on the most intimate terms.
but the gentlemen will have Mr. Bingley's chaise to go to Meryton, and the Hursts have no horses to theirs."
His apparent partiality had subsided, his attentions were over, he was the admirer of some one else.
Elizabeth, construing all this into a wish of hearing her speak of her sister, was pleased, and on this account, as well as some others, found herself, when their visitors left them, capable of considering the last half-hour with some satisfaction, though while it was passing, the enjoyment of it had been little.
"A man who had felt less, might."
"Yes, very well.
He was writing and, without raising his head, coolly replied:  "Just as you please."
To my fancy, it is only because he does not rattle away like other young men."
"Yes, very different.
You could not have met with a person more capable of giving you certain information on that head than myself, for I have been connected with his family in a particular manner from my infancy."
It pains me to offend you.
Steady to his purpose, he scarcely spoke ten words to her through the whole of Saturday, and though they were at one time left by themselves for half-an-hour, he adhered most conscientiously to his book, and would not even look at her.
Mr. Darcy walked off; and Elizabeth remained with no very cordial feelings toward him.
Wretched, wretched mistake!"
"Of Mr. Collins and Lizzy.
The prospect of such delights was very cheering, and they parted in mutual good spirits.
Other books were produced, and after some deliberation he chose Fordyce's Sermons.
But the spiritless condition which this event threw her into was shortly relieved, and her mind opened again to the agitation of hope, by an article of news which then began to be in circulation.
Mr. and Mrs. Collins have a comfortable income, but not such a one as will allow of frequent journeys--and I am persuaded my friend would not call herself _near_ her family under less than _half_ the present distance."
"In marrying your nephew, I should not consider myself as quitting that sphere.
As it was certain, however, that somebody was coming, Bingley instantly prevailed on Miss Bennet to avoid the confinement of such an intrusion, and walk away with him into the shrubbery.
She liked him too little to care for his approbation.
I never heard of her existence till the day before yesterday."
To this Mary very gravely replied, "Far be it from me, my dear sister, to depreciate such pleasures!
Mr. Darcy had at first scarcely allowed her to be pretty; he had looked at her without admiration at the ball; and when they next met, he looked at her only to criticise.
"Only think of its being three months," she cried, "since I went away; it seems but a fortnight I declare; and yet there have been things enough happened in the time.
"Oh, yes!
Mr. Collins no sooner saw the two girls than he began to congratulate them on their good fortune, which Charlotte explained by letting them know that the whole party was asked to dine at Rosings the next day.
"Shall we ask your cousin the reason of this?"
how would she have behaved?"
Wickham will soon be gone; and therefore it will not signify to anyone here what he really is.
"No; but it must be done soon."
My aunt Phillips came to Longbourn on Tuesday, after my father went away; and was so good as to stay till Thursday with me.
And when her sisters abused it as ugly, she added, with perfect unconcern, "Oh!
It soon led to another; and Mrs. Bennet found, with amazement and horror, that her husband would not advance a guinea to buy clothes for his daughter.
She was then proceeding to all the particulars of calico, muslin, and cambric, and would shortly have dictated some very plentiful orders, had not Jane, though with some difficulty, persuaded her to wait till her father was at leisure to be consulted.
I hope there was.
"He is also handsome," replied Elizabeth, "which a young man ought likewise to be, if he possibly can.
It was exactly a scene, and exactly among people, where he had apparently least to do, and least temptation to go.
There was no help for it, however.
Jane was beyond competition her favourite child.
I will only say farther that from what passed that evening, my opinion of all parties was confirmed, and every inducement heightened which could have led me before, to preserve my friend from what I esteemed a most unhappy connection.
About the middle of the next day, as she was in her room getting ready for a walk, a sudden noise below seemed to speak the whole house in confusion; and, after listening a moment, she heard somebody running up stairs in a violent hurry, and calling loudly after her.
You refuse, then, to oblige me.
"Is your master much at Pemberley in the course of the year?"
my dear," cried his wife, "I cannot bear to hear that mentioned.
It is a great comfort to have you so rich, and when you have nothing else to do, I hope you will think of us.
for she only came, I suppose, to tell us the Collinses were well.
said she, as she looked in her face.
I shall see her in January.
"_You_ began the evening well, Charlotte," said Mrs. Bennet with civil self-command to Miss Lucas.
The former was divided between admiration of the brilliancy which exercise had given to her complexion, and doubt as to the occasion's justifying her coming so far alone.
All expectation from the brother was now absolutely over.
They proceeded in silence along the gravel walk that led to the copse; Elizabeth was determined to make no effort for conversation with a woman who was now more than usually insolent and disagreeable.
It is only that he is blessed with greater sweetness of address, and a stronger desire of generally pleasing, than any other man."
They were then, with no other delay than his pointing out the neatness of the entrance, taken into the house; and as soon as they were in the parlour, he welcomed them a second time, with ostentatious formality to his humble abode, and punctually repeated all his wife's offers of refreshment.
I know you will contrive it all."
His brother-in-law, Mr. Hurst, merely looked the gentleman; but his friend Mr. Darcy soon drew the attention of the room by his fine, tall person, handsome features, noble mien, and the report which was in general circulation within five minutes after his entrance, of his having ten thousand a year.
Mr. Darcy's shameful boast of what misery he had been able to inflict, gave her a keener sense of her sister's sufferings.
They had been walking about the place with some of their new friends, and were just returning to the inn to dress themselves for dining with the same family, when the sound of a carriage drew them to a window, and they saw a gentleman and a lady in a curricle driving up the street.
"I have not a doubt of Mr. Bingley's sincerity," said Elizabeth warmly; "but you must excuse my not being convinced by assurances only.
"I like her appearance," said Elizabeth, struck with other ideas.
"You are over-scrupulous, surely.
"I am, dear sir, etc., etc."
I did not wink at you."
What will become of me.
"And they _must_ marry!
Miss Bennet he acknowledged to be pretty, but she smiled too much.
"I found," said he, "as the time drew near that I had better not meet Mr. Darcy; that to be in the same room, the same party with him for so many hours together, might be more than I could bear, and that scenes might arise unpleasant to more than myself."
I shall write again as soon as anything more is determined on.
Elizabeth was sitting with her mother and sisters, reflecting on what she had heard, and doubting whether she was authorised to mention it, when Sir William Lucas himself appeared, sent by his daughter, to announce her engagement to the family.
"I have found out," said he, "by a singular accident, that there is now in the room a near relation of my patroness.
He had rather hoped that his wife's views on the stranger would be disappointed; but he soon found out that he had a different story to hear.
I often tell young ladies that no excellence in music is to be acquired without constant practice.
"What can be the meaning of this?"
And his sisters are charming women.
She was very wrong in singling me out as she did; I can safely say that every advance to intimacy began on her side.
A little time, therefore--I shall certainly try to get the better."
Mr. Bingley was unaffectedly civil in his answer, and forced his younger sister to be civil also, and say what the occasion required.
I can recall nothing worse.
I hear such different accounts of you as puzzle me exceedingly."
"This is delightful indeed!
But I am afraid you are giving it a turn which that gentleman did by no means intend; for he would certainly think better of me, if under such a circumstance I were to give a flat denial, and ride off as fast as I could."
My visit was not long, as Caroline and Mrs. Hurst were going out.
Without allowing herself time for consideration, and scarcely knowing what she felt, Elizabeth on finishing this letter instantly seized the other, and opening it with the utmost impatience, read as follows: it had been written a day later than the conclusion of the first.
I often tell young ladies that no excellence in music is to be acquired without constant practice.
"What, is he coming home, and without poor Lydia?"
Lady Catherine was extremely indignant on the marriage of her nephew; and as she gave way to all the genuine frankness of her character in her reply to the letter which announced its arrangement, she sent him language so very abusive, especially of Elizabeth, that for some time all intercourse was at an end.
They travelled as expeditiously as possible, and, sleeping one night on the road, reached Longbourn by dinner time the next day.
My dear Jane, Mr. Collins is a conceited, pompous, narrow-minded, silly man; you know he is, as well as I do; and you must feel, as well as I do, that the woman who married him cannot have a proper way of thinking.
He seldom appeared really animated.
He was not seated by her; perhaps that was the reason of his silence; but it had not been so in Derbyshire.
The possibility of meeting Mr. Darcy, while viewing the place, instantly occurred.
"But you are not entitled to know mine; nor will such behaviour as this, ever induce me to be explicit."
They were in fact very fine ladies; not deficient in good humour when they were pleased, nor in the power of making themselves agreeable when they chose it, but proud and conceited.
pray apologise for my having disliked him so much before.
I quite detest the man."
"Yes, indeed, his friends may well rejoice in his having met with one of the very few sensible women who would have accepted him, or have made him happy if they had.
Elizabeth said as little to either as civility would allow, and sat down again to her work, with an eagerness which it did not often command.
But the fact is, that we are very different sort of men, and that he hates me."
At five o'clock the two ladies retired to dress, and at half-past six Elizabeth was summoned to dinner.
She respected, she esteemed, she was grateful to him, she felt a real interest in his welfare; and she only wanted to know how far she wished that welfare to depend upon herself, and how far it would be for the happiness of both that she should employ the power, which her fancy told her she still possessed, of bringing on her the renewal of his addresses.
Lady Catherine had many other questions to ask respecting their journey, and as she did not answer them all herself, attention was necessary, which Elizabeth believed to be lucky for her; or, with a mind so occupied, she might have forgotten where she was.
One cannot know what a man really is by the end of a fortnight.
What I have to say relates to poor Lydia.
Sir William could not have interrupted two people in the room who had less to say for themselves.
The day passed much as the day before had done.
Mr. Collins made his declaration in form.
She really looked almost wild."
He was on one side of her mother.
the story which followed, of his designs on Miss Darcy, received some confirmation from what had passed between Colonel Fitzwilliam and herself only the morning before; and at last she was referred for the truth of every particular to Colonel Fitzwilliam himself--from whom she had previously received the information of his near concern in all his cousin's affairs, and whose character she had no reason to question.
Her mother's thoughts she plainly saw were bent the same way, and she determined not to venture near her, lest she might hear too much.
She began now to comprehend that he was exactly the man who, in disposition and talents, would most suit her.
"You dislike an argument, and want to silence this."
Mrs. Gardiner was standing a little behind; and on her pausing, he asked her if she would do him the honour of introducing him to her friends.
there is such an expression of goodness in his countenance!
Elizabeth was excessively disappointed; she had set her heart on seeing the Lakes, and still thought there might have been time enough.
You have shown him off now much more than he did himself."
"And this is always the way with him," she added.
"You may, in fact, carry a very favourable report of us into Hertfordshire, my dear cousin.
cried Elizabeth, brightening up for a moment.
"Oh, lord!
Had Colonel Forster seen Denny himself?"
Mr. Darcy looked just as he had been used to look in Hertfordshire--paid his compliments, with his usual reserve, to Mrs. Collins, and whatever might be his feelings toward her friend, met her with every appearance of composure.
We dressed up Chamberlayne in woman's clothes on purpose to pass for a lady, only think what fun!
I hope your plans in favour of the ----shire will not be affected by his being in the neighbourhood."
"I have, sir."
"A thorough, determined dislike of me--a dislike which I cannot but attribute in some measure to jealousy.
In ran Mrs. Bennet to her daughter's room, in her dressing gown, and with her hair half finished, crying out:  "My dear Jane, make haste and hurry down.
Mrs. Bennet, with great civility, begged her ladyship to take some refreshment; but Lady Catherine very resolutely, and not very politely, declined eating anything; and then, rising up, said to Elizabeth,  "Miss Bennet, there seemed to be a prettyish kind of a little wilderness on one side of your lawn.
Perhaps not the less so from feeling a doubt of my positive happiness had my fair cousin honoured me with her hand; for I have often observed that resignation is never so perfect as when the blessing denied begins to lose somewhat of its value in our estimation.
"Have you any other objection," said Elizabeth, "than your belief of my indifference?"
Jane instantly gave a look at Elizabeth which spoke her distress at such premeditation, and her entreaty that _she_ would not give in to it.
Miss Bingley made no answer, and soon afterwards she got up and walked about the room.
If he had been so very agreeable, he would have talked to Mrs. Long.
I am perfectly satisfied, from what his manners now are, that he never had any design of engaging my affection.
"If they had uncles enough to fill _all_ Cheapside," cried Bingley, "it would not make them one jot less agreeable."
"How can you talk so?"
Elizabeth was now most heartily sorry that she had, from the distress of the moment, been led to make Mr. Darcy acquainted with their fears for her sister; for since her marriage would so shortly give the proper termination to the elopement, they might hope to conceal its unfavourable beginning from all those who were not immediately on the spot.
They left Brighton together on Sunday night, and were traced almost to London, but not beyond; they are certainly not gone to Scotland."
The others have been gone on to Scarborough, these three weeks."
Every girl in or near Meryton was out of her senses about him for the first two months; but he never distinguished _her_ by any particular attention; and, consequently, after a moderate period of extravagant and wild admiration, her fancy for him gave way, and others of the regiment, who treated her with more distinction, again became her favourites."
why did she come?
"You may well warn me against such an evil.
Into _one_ house in this neighbourhood they shall never have admittance.
Elizabeth, feeling it incumbent on her to relieve him from so unpleasant a situation, now put herself forward to confirm his account, by mentioning her prior knowledge of it from Charlotte herself; and endeavoured to put a stop to the exclamations of her mother and sisters by the earnestness of her congratulations to Sir William, in which she was readily joined by Jane, and by making a variety of remarks on the happiness that might be expected from the match, the excellent character of Mr. Collins, and the convenient distance of Hunsford from London.
He looked surprised, displeased, alarmed; but with a moment's recollection and a returning smile, replied, that he had formerly seen him often; and, after observing that he was a very gentlemanlike man, asked her how she had liked him.
When they sat down to supper, therefore, she considered it a most unlucky perverseness which placed them within one of each other; and deeply was she vexed to find that her mother was talking to that one person (Lady Lucas) freely, openly, and of nothing else but her expectation that Jane would soon be married to Mr. Bingley.
Lord, how ashamed I should be of not being married before three-and-twenty!
"Are you indeed?
She is well, and begs to be dutifully remembered to you and your mother.--Yours, etc.,  "E.
You must write again very soon, and praise him a great deal more than you did in your last.
But at least it shows that _she_ was serious on the subject of their journey.
Allowing the case, however, to stand according to your representation, you must remember, Miss Bennet, that the friend who is supposed to desire his return to the house, and the delay of his plan, has merely desired it, asked it without offering one argument in favour of its propriety."
Here consequently was an inexhaustible subject of discourse.
They had nothing to accuse him of but pride; pride he probably had, and if not, it would certainly be imputed by the inhabitants of a small market-town where the family did not visit.
"I am sure I shall break _mine_," said Lydia.
Everybody is disgusted with his pride.
She perfectly remembered everything that had passed in conversation between Wickham and herself, in their first evening at Mr. Phillips's.
In the afternoon Lydia was urgent with the rest of the girls to walk to Meryton, and to see how everybody went on; but Elizabeth steadily opposed the scheme.
I do not believe she often sees such at home."
Elizabeth was surprised, but agreed to it immediately.
I know it to be impossible."
"You must not blame my aunt.
for I ought not to have mentioned the subject.
You must contrive to send somebody.
The compliment to herself and her sister was not unfelt.
It was painful, exceedingly painful, to know that they were under obligations to a person who could never receive a return.
"You have a house in town, I conclude?"
cried Mrs. Gardiner, whose curiosity as to the mode of her intelligence was all alive.
All were struck with the stranger's air, all wondered who he could be; and Kitty and Lydia, determined if possible to find out, led the way across the street, under pretense of wanting something in an opposite shop, and fortunately had just gained the pavement when the two gentlemen, turning back, had reached the same spot.
Miss Bingley's civility to Elizabeth increased at last very rapidly, as well as her affection for Jane; and when they parted, after assuring the latter of the pleasure it would always give her to see her either at Longbourn or Netherfield, and embracing her most tenderly, she even shook hands with the former.
Four sides of paper were insufficient to contain all her delight, and all her earnest desire of being loved by her sister.
repeated Darcy contemptuously; "yes, his misfortunes have been great indeed."
"We never had any governess."
I am perfectly satisfied, from what his manners now are, that he never had any design of engaging my affection.
He must write his own sermons; and the time that remains will not be too much for his parish duties, and the care and improvement of his dwelling, which he cannot be excused from making as comfortable as possible.
It was more than civil; it was really attentive; and there was no necessity for such attention.
Bingley, from this time, was of course a daily visitor at Longbourn; coming frequently before breakfast, and always remaining till after supper; unless when some barbarous neighbour, who could not be enough detested, had given him an invitation to dinner which he thought himself obliged to accept.
She mentioned this to her friend Miss Lucas.
"I have no reason, I assure you," said he, "to be dissatisfied with my reception.
In another minute, Mr. Bingley, but without seeming to have noticed what passed, took leave and rode on with his friend.
Mr. Wickham's society was of material service in dispelling the gloom which the late perverse occurrences had thrown on many of the Longbourn family.
I cannot boast of knowing more than half-a-dozen, in the whole range of my acquaintance, that are really accomplished."
Nothing but concern for Elizabeth could enable Bingley to keep his countenance.
"DEAR SIR,  "I must trouble you once more for congratulations.
"If he does not come to me, _then_," said she, "I shall give him up for ever."
certainly," said Elizabeth, though burning with curiosity; "we will ask you no questions."
You have no compassion for my poor nerves."
"By all means," cried Bingley; "let us hear all the particulars, not forgetting their comparative height and size; for that will have more weight in the argument, Miss Bennet, than you may be aware of.
If there _were_ but such another man for you!"
Consider how important every moment is in such a case."
But there is one of her sisters sitting down just behind you, who is very pretty, and I dare say very agreeable.
Her daughter endeavoured to convince her of what she did not believe herself, that his attentions to Jane had been merely the effect of a common and transient liking, which ceased when he saw her no more; but though the probability of the statement was admitted at the time, she had the same story to repeat every day.
"What should not you mind?"
"I will make no promise of the kind."
Her father had been an attorney in Meryton, and had left her four thousand pounds.
At length there was nothing more to be said; the ladies drove on, and the others returned into the house.
You must contrive to send somebody.
He had not a temper to bear the sort of competition in which we stood--the sort of preference which was often given me."
Elizabeth was disgusted, and even Miss Bennet was shocked.
I sincerely hope your Christmas in Hertfordshire may abound in the gaieties which that season generally brings, and that your beaux will be so numerous as to prevent your feeling the loss of the three of whom we shall deprive you."
I knew enough of your disposition to be certain that, had you been absolutely, irrevocably decided against me, you would have acknowledged it to Lady Catherine, frankly and openly."
After discharging his conscience on that head, he proceeded to inform them, with many rapturous expressions, of his happiness in having obtained the affection of their amiable neighbour, Miss Lucas, and then explained that it was merely with the view of enjoying her society that he had been so ready to close with their kind wish of seeing him again at Longbourn, whither he hoped to be able to return on Monday fortnight; for Lady Catherine, he added, so heartily approved his marriage, that she wished it to take place as soon as possible, which he trusted would be an unanswerable argument with his amiable Charlotte to name an early day for making him the happiest of men.
Elizabeth was so much caught with what passed, as to leave her very little attention for her book; and soon laying it wholly aside, she drew near the card-table, and stationed herself between Mr. Bingley and his eldest sister, to observe the game.
But on the third morning after his arrival in Hertfordshire, she saw him, from her dressing-room window, enter the paddock and ride towards the house.
Had Colonel Forster seen Denny himself?"
I do not know a place in the country that is equal to Netherfield.
"Yes, I do comprehend a great deal in it."
Had she merely _dined_ with him, she might only have discovered whether he had a good appetite; but you must remember that four evenings have also been spent together--and four evenings may do a great deal."
It was possible, however, that some of his companions in the ----shire might be able to give more information; and though she was not very sanguine in expecting it, the application was a something to look forward to.
Elizabeth could but just _affect_ concern in missing him; she really rejoiced at it.
He said as little as he had ever been in the habit of saying; made no mention of the business that had taken him away, and it was some time before his daughters had courage to speak of it.
"What can be the meaning of this?"
That the Miss Lucases and the Miss Bennets should meet to talk over a ball was absolutely necessary; and the morning after the assembly brought the former to Longbourn to hear and to communicate.
Mary, though pretending not to hear, was somewhat disconcerted; and Elizabeth, sorry for her, and sorry for her father's speech, was afraid her anxiety had done no good.
What advantage can it be for you to offend Mr. Darcy?
Some of them were to dine with the Phillipses the next day, and their aunt promised to make her husband call on Mr. Wickham, and give him an invitation also, if the family from Longbourn would come in the evening.
They were within twenty yards of each other, and so abrupt was his appearance, that it was impossible to avoid his sight.
His plan did not vary on seeing them.
Then taking the disengaged arm of Mr. Darcy, she left Elizabeth to walk by herself.
We acted with the best intentions."
"And what am I to do on the occasion?
The letter was to this effect:  "MY DEAR LIZZY,  "I wish you joy.
They stood for some time without speaking a word; and she began to imagine that their silence was to last through the two dances, and at first was resolved not to break it; till suddenly fancying that it would be the greater punishment to her partner to oblige him to talk, she made some slight observation on the dance.
Here they were interrupted by Lady Catherine, who called out to know what they were talking of.
I hope we may often meet again."
"She seems a very pleasant young woman."
sir, I do indeed.
"You make me laugh, Charlotte; but it is not sound.
While settling this point, she was suddenly roused by the sound of the door-bell, and her spirits were a little fluttered by the idea of its being Colonel Fitzwilliam himself, who had once before called late in the evening, and might now come to inquire particularly after her.
The evening conversation, when they were all assembled, had lost much of its animation, and almost all its sense by the absence of Jane and Elizabeth.
"Nothing child, nothing.
"How can you talk so?"
The letter which she wrote on this occasion to her sister will prove what she felt.
The agitation and tears which the subject occasioned, brought on a headache; and it grew so much worse towards the evening, that, added to her unwillingness to see Mr. Darcy, it determined her not to attend her cousins to Rosings, where they were engaged to drink tea.
How he lived I know not.
He has many friends, and is at a time of life when friends and engagements are continually increasing."
He can be a conversible companion if he thinks it worth his while.
I think it would not be very likely to promote sisterly affection or delicacy of mind."
The evening passed quietly, unmarked by anything extraordinary.
Miss Bennet's astonishment was soon lessened by the strong sisterly partiality which made any admiration of Elizabeth appear perfectly natural; and all surprise was shortly lost in other feelings.
He now wished it more than ever.
Mr. Collins was employed in agreeing to everything her ladyship said, thanking her for every fish he won, and apologising if he thought he won too many.
If gratitude and esteem are good foundations of affection, Elizabeth's change of sentiment will be neither improbable nor faulty.
She had not been many hours at home before she found that the Brighton scheme, of which Lydia had given them a hint at the inn, was under frequent discussion between her parents.
What say you, Mary?
Well, well, I only hope it will last.
This was a sad omen of what her mother's behaviour to the gentleman himself might be; and Elizabeth found that, though in the certain possession of his warmest affection, and secure of her relations' consent, there was still something to be wished for.
Mary and Kitty were both with Mrs. Bennet: one communication would, therefore, do for all.
"MY DEAR BROTHER,  "At last I am able to send you some tidings of my niece, and such as, upon the whole, I hope it will give you satisfaction.
"I had not been long in Hertfordshire, before I saw, in common with others, that Bingley preferred your elder sister to any other young woman in the country.
She shook her head.
The gentlemen pronounced him to be a fine figure of a man, the ladies declared he was much handsomer than Mr. Bingley, and he was looked at with great admiration for about half the evening, till his manners gave a disgust which turned the tide of his popularity; for he was discovered to be proud; to be above his company, and above being pleased; and not all his large estate in Derbyshire could then save him from having a most forbidding, disagreeable countenance, and being unworthy to be compared with his friend.
In comparing her recollection of Pemberley with the minute description which Wickham could give, and in bestowing her tribute of praise on the character of its late possessor, she was delighting both him and herself.
Elizabeth obeyed, and running into her own room for her parasol, attended her noble guest downstairs.
The discomposure of spirits which this extraordinary visit threw Elizabeth into, could not be easily overcome; nor could she, for many hours, learn to think of it less than incessantly.
An airing would do me a great deal of good, I am sure.
"I am not one-and-twenty."
Lizzy, why am I thus singled from my family, and blessed above them all!
I am particularly unlucky in meeting with a person so able to expose my real character, in a part of the world where I had hoped to pass myself off with some degree of credit.
The supposition did not pain her.
How is such a man to be worked on?
The next was in these words: "I do not pretend to regret anything I shall leave in Hertfordshire, except your society, my dearest friend; but we will hope, at some future period, to enjoy many returns of that delightful intercourse we have known, and in the meanwhile may lessen the pain of separation by a very frequent and most unreserved correspondence.
Our instrument is a capital one, probably superior to----You shall try it some day.
"I never can be thankful, Mr. Bennet, for anything about the entail.
I was in great hopes that one of you would have got a husband before you came back.
"But what is to be done about Pemberley?"
What shall we do with him?
It is excellent news--capital news--and about a certain person we all like!"
If from no better motive, that he should not have been too proud to be dishonest--for dishonesty I must call it."
She hated having visitors in the house while her health was so indifferent, and lovers were of all people the most disagreeable.
Mrs. Reynolds could interest her on no other point.
I believed you to be wishing, expecting my addresses."
A few days after this visit, Mr. Bingley called again, and alone.
But Jane could think with certainty on only one point--that Mr. Bingley, if he _had_ been imposed on, would have much to suffer when the affair became public.
"Now I have got some news for you," said Lydia, as they sat down at table.
how I laughed!
The feelings which, you tell me, have long prevented the acknowledgment of your regard, can have little difficulty in overcoming it after this explanation."
* * * * *  Mr. Gardiner soon wrote again to his brother.
Your ladyship wants Mr. Darcy to marry your daughter; but would my giving you the wished-for promise make their marriage at all more probable?
It mortifies me.
He has more to give.
Elizabeth felt herself completely taken in.
The strangeness of Mr. Collins's making two offers of marriage within three days was nothing in comparison of his being now accepted.
Though her brother and sister were persuaded that there was no real occasion for such a seclusion from the family, they did not attempt to oppose it, for they knew that she had not prudence enough to hold her tongue before the servants, while they waited at table, and judged it better that _one_ only of the household, and the one whom they could most trust should comprehend all her fears and solicitude on the subject.
"MY DEAR FRIEND,--  "If you are not so compassionate as to dine to-day with Louisa and me, we shall be in danger of hating each other for the rest of our lives, for a whole day's tete-a-tete between two women can never end without a quarrel.
"As often as I can.
She could settle it in no way that gave her pleasure.
At length she spoke again.
But there are two things that I want very much to know; one is, how much money your uncle has laid down to bring it about; and the other, how am I ever to pay him."
And there are other circumstances which I am not at liberty--which it is not worth while to relate; but his lies about the whole Pemberley family are endless.
Mr. Collins returned into Hertfordshire soon after it had been quitted by the Gardiners and Jane; but as he took up his abode with the Lucases, his arrival was no great inconvenience to Mrs. Bennet.
"It must have been his sister's doing.
Elizabeth was surprised, but said not a word.
"And _that_ I suppose is one of your sisters."
As yet, she cannot even be certain of the degree of her own regard nor of its reasonableness.
She could settle it in no way that gave her pleasure.
Pray, how _violent was_ Mr. Bingley's love?"
"I can comprehend your going on charmingly, when you had once made a beginning; but what could set you off in the first place?"
Could he expect that her friends would not step forward?
That tall, proud man."
_His_ eyes had been soon and repeatedly turned towards them with a look of curiosity; and that her ladyship, after a while, shared the feeling, was more openly acknowledged, for she did not scruple to call out:  "What is that you are saying, Fitzwilliam?
Mr. Collins readily assented, and a book was produced; but, on beholding it (for everything announced it to be from a circulating library), he started back, and begging pardon, protested that he never read novels.
And what sort of young lady is she?
The united efforts of his two unfeeling sisters and of his overpowering friend, assisted by the attractions of Miss Darcy and the amusements of London might be too much, she feared, for the strength of his attachment.
That tall, proud man."
It soon led to another; and Mrs. Bennet found, with amazement and horror, that her husband would not advance a guinea to buy clothes for his daughter.
Then pray speak aloud.
"And did Colonel Forster appear to think well of Wickham himself?
Not Lydia only, but all were concerned in it; and after the first exclamations of surprise and horror, Mr. Gardiner promised every assistance in his power.
I never met with anybody who delighted me so much.
I never saw such capacity, and taste, and application, and elegance, as you describe united."
I would not trust you so near it as Eastbourne for fifty pounds!
"Pray forgive me if I have been very presuming, or at least do not punish me so far as to exclude me from P. I shall never be quite happy till I have been all round the park.
She followed her father to the fire place, and they both sat down.
Elizabeth was shocked to think that, however incapable of such coarseness of _expression_ herself, the coarseness of the _sentiment_ was little other than her own breast had harboured and fancied liberal!
Lady Catherine is far from requiring that elegance of dress in us which becomes herself and her daughter.
I am glad he dines here on Tuesday.
The girls stared at their father.
There was neither in figure nor face any likeness between the ladies.
But, however this remonstrance might have staggered or delayed his determination, I do not suppose that it would ultimately have prevented the marriage, had it not been seconded by the assurance that I hesitated not in giving, of your sister's indifference.
It was to be such a secret!"
"Did you go by the village of Kympton?"
Respect, esteem, and confidence had vanished for ever; and all his views of domestic happiness were overthrown.
He is not at all liked in Hertfordshire.
My dear, dear Lydia!
When those dances were over, she returned to Charlotte Lucas, and was in conversation with her, when she found herself suddenly addressed by Mr. Darcy who took her so much by surprise in his application for her hand, that, without knowing what she did, she accepted him.
Catherine, weak-spirited, irritable, and completely under Lydia's guidance, had been always affronted by their advice; and Lydia, self-willed and careless, would scarcely give them a hearing.
His being such a charming young man, and so rich, and living but three miles from them, were the first points of self-gratulation; and then it was such a comfort to think how fond the two sisters were of Jane, and to be certain that they must desire the connection as much as she could do.
The time fixed for the beginning of their northern tour was now fast approaching, and a fortnight only was wanting of it, when a letter arrived from Mrs. Gardiner, which at once delayed its commencement and curtailed its extent.
What could be the meaning of it?
"We are speaking of music, madam," said he, when no longer able to avoid a reply.
"But," he added, "you will of course wish to have your humble respects delivered to them, with your grateful thanks for their kindness to you while you have been here."
An hour, however, saw the whole completed; and Mr. Gardiner meanwhile having settled his account at the inn, nothing remained to be done but to go; and Elizabeth, after all the misery of the morning, found herself, in a shorter space of time than she could have supposed, seated in the carriage, and on the road to Longbourn.
The turn of your countenance I shall never forget, as you said that I could not have addressed you in any possible way that would induce you to accept me."
"I want to know," said she, with a countenance no less smiling than her sister's, "what you have learnt about Mr. Wickham.
He sat with them above an hour, and was in remarkably good spirits.
She longed to see Mrs. Phillips, the Lucases, and all their other neighbours, and to hear herself called "Mrs. Wickham" by each of them; and in the mean time, she went after dinner to show her ring, and boast of being married, to Mrs. Hill and the two housemaids.
"But now that my dear uncle is come, I hope everything will be well."
Are you quite sure that you feel what you ought to do?"
Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner smiled.
But we are none of us consistent, and in his behaviour to me there were stronger impulses even than pride."
"I must think your language too strong in speaking of both," replied Jane; "and I hope you will be convinced of it by seeing them happy together.
My avowed one, or what I avowed to myself, was to see whether your sister were still partial to Bingley, and if she were, to make the confession to him which I have since made."
She longed to speak, but could think of nothing to say; and after a short silence Mrs. Bennet began repeating her thanks to Mr. Bingley for his kindness to Jane, with an apology for troubling him also with Lizzy.
You must, therefore, pardon the freedom with which I demand your attention; your feelings, I know, will bestow it unwillingly, but I demand it of your justice.
You must allow me to tell you how ardently I admire and love you."
how he must have felt it!"
In a country neighbourhood you move in a very confined and unvarying society."
We must not expect a lively young man to be always so guarded and circumspect.
I do think Mrs. Long is as good a creature as ever lived--and her nieces are very pretty behaved girls, and not at all handsome: I like them prodigiously."
"We will go as far as Meryton with you," said Catherine and Lydia.
As for my fair cousins, though my absence may not be long enough to render it necessary, I shall now take the liberty of wishing them health and happiness, not excepting my cousin Elizabeth."
"It is amazing to me," said Bingley, "how young ladies can have patience to be so very accomplished as they all are."
I am afraid you will be angry."
Darcy smiled and said, "You are perfectly right.
You must feel it; and the usual satisfaction of preaching patience to a sufferer is denied me, because you have always so much."
But the clothes, the wedding clothes!
Mr. Bingley intended it likewise, and sometimes made choice of his county; but as he was now provided with a good house and the liberty of a manor, it was doubtful to many of those who best knew the easiness of his temper, whether he might not spend the remainder of his days at Netherfield, and leave the next generation to purchase.
"Except," thought Elizabeth, "when she goes to Ramsgate."
I hope there was.
Not that I am afraid of _myself_, but I dread other people's remarks."
She will follow wherever Lydia leads.
"It is a compliment which I never pay to any place if I can avoid it."
Elizabeth, feeling all the more than common awkwardness and anxiety of his situation, now forced herself to speak; and immediately, though not very fluently, gave him to understand that her sentiments had undergone so material a change, since the period to which he alluded, as to make her receive with gratitude and pleasure his present assurances.
Their parties abroad were less varied than before, and at home she had a mother and sister whose constant repinings at the dullness of everything around them threw a real gloom over their domestic circle; and, though Kitty might in time regain her natural degree of sense, since the disturbers of her brain were removed, her other sister, from whose disposition greater evil might be apprehended, was likely to be hardened in all her folly and assurance by a situation of such double danger as a watering-place and a camp.
"Then, who taught you?
Her ladyship was highly incensed.
The first mentioned was, that, regardless of the sentiments of either, I had detached Mr. Bingley from your sister, and the other, that I had, in defiance of various claims, in defiance of honour and humanity, ruined the immediate prosperity and blasted the prospects of Mr. Wickham.
It was not to be supposed that time would give Lydia that embarrassment from which she had been so wholly free at first.
The steady countenance which Miss Lucas had commanded in telling her story, gave way to a momentary confusion here on receiving so direct a reproach; though, as it was no more than she expected, she soon regained her composure, and calmly replied:  "Why should you be surprised, my dear Eliza?
"Who do you mean, my dear?
"Nay," said Elizabeth, "this is not fair.
Colonel Fitzwilliam's occasionally laughing at his stupidity, proved that he was generally different, which her own knowledge of him could not have told her; and as she would liked to have believed this change the effect of love, and the object of that love her friend Eliza, she set herself seriously to work to find it out.
He was then, he said, on his way to Longbourn on purpose to inquire after her.
No one but Jane, she thought, could flatter herself with such an expectation.
Elizabeth shook her head over this letter.
He _spoke_ of apprehension and anxiety, but his countenance expressed real security.
He was as generous, she doubted not, as the most generous of his sex; but while he was mortal, there must be a triumph.
But she had no reason to fear Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner's curiosity; it was not their wish to force her communication.
But, really, I know not what to say.
If I may so express it, he has a _right_ to be proud."
However, I did not hear above one word in ten, for I was thinking, you may suppose, of my dear Wickham.
"Perhaps that is not possible for anyone.
Elizabeth coloured, and said: "A little."
She became jealous of his esteem, when she could no longer hope to be benefited by it.
"What would she have said?
The park was very large, and contained great variety of ground.
However little Mr. Darcy might have liked such an address, he contented himself with coolly replying that he perceived no other alteration than her being rather tanned, no miraculous consequence of travelling in the summer.
He was at the same time haughty, reserved, and fastidious, and his manners, though well-bred, were not inviting.
"I am astonished, my dear," said Mrs. Bennet, "that you should be so ready to think your own children silly.
At our time of life it is not so pleasant, I can tell you, to be making new acquaintances every day; but for your sakes, we would do anything.
"Yes, very handsome."
cried he, turning towards her.
"My dear, dear Lydia!"
"You may as well call it impertinence at once.
This was his plan of amends--of atonement--for inheriting their father's estate; and he thought it an excellent one, full of eligibility and suitableness, and excessively generous and disinterested on his own part.
After listening one morning to their effusions on this subject, Mr. Bennet coolly observed:  "From all that I can collect by your manner of talking, you must be two of the silliest girls in the country.
"Does that young lady know Mr.
No, Lizzy, let me once in my life feel how much I have been to blame.
The visit was soon returned in due form.
Her mother would talk of her views in the same intelligible tone.
Georgiana had the highest opinion in the world of Elizabeth; though at first she often listened with an astonishment bordering on alarm at her lively, sportive, manner of talking to her brother.
"I have been making the tour of the park," he replied, "as I generally do every year, and intend to close it with a call at the Parsonage.
She had known, it seems, of their being in love with each other, many weeks."
Things are settled so oddly."
I cannot forget the follies and vices of others so soon as I ought, nor their offenses against myself.
In his present behaviour to herself, moreover, she had a fresh source of displeasure, for the inclination he soon testified of renewing those intentions which had marked the early part of their acquaintance could only serve, after what had since passed, to provoke her.
"I have found out," said he, "by a singular accident, that there is now in the room a near relation of my patroness.
"But so we all do.
One ought not to repine;--but, to be sure, it would have been such a thing for me!
She was not sorry, however, to have the recital of them interrupted by the lady from whom they sprang.
But I cannot find out that Jane saw anything of him in London.
"But my dear Elizabeth," she added, "what sort of girl is Miss King?
"His pride," said Miss Lucas, "does not offend _me_ so much as pride often does, because there is an excuse for it.
Lady Catherine will not think the worse of you for being simply dressed.
But he was set right there by Mrs. Bennet, who assured him with some asperity that they were very well able to keep a good cook, and that her daughters had nothing to do in the kitchen.
She was gone directly.
My total ignorance of the connection must plead my apology."
Do clear _them_ too, or we shall be obliged to think ill of somebody."
I was so afraid, you know, that something would happen to put it off, and then I should have gone quite distracted.
It was a long time before she became at all reconciled to the idea of so unsuitable a match.
But who was your mother?
Some people call him proud; but I am sure I never saw anything of it.
"And are they upon such terms as for her to disclose the real truth?
She had got rid of two of the secrets which had weighed on her for a fortnight, and was certain of a willing listener in Jane, whenever she might wish to talk again of either.
I declare I do not know a more awful object than Darcy, on particular occasions, and in particular places; at his own house especially, and of a Sunday evening, when he has nothing to do."
"Not at all," he replied; "they were brightened by the exercise."
Is not this an agreeable surprise?"
"Yes, very different.
so tall!--Oh, my dear Lizzy!
Jane was therefore obliged to go on horseback, and her mother attended her to the door with many cheerful prognostics of a bad day.
Miss Bennet still looked all amazement.
The subject was pursued no farther, and the gentlemen soon afterwards went away.
In what imaginary act of friendship can you here defend yourself?
Who are your uncles and aunts?
my dear, I am quite delighted with him.
I _should_ say, one of her ladyship's carriages, for she has several."
Mr. Bingley inherited property to the amount of nearly a hundred thousand pounds from his father, who had intended to purchase an estate, but did not live to do it.
She saw herself the object of attention, to tens and to scores of them at present unknown.
Lady Catherine, it appeared, had actually taken the trouble of this journey from Rosings, for the sole purpose of breaking off her supposed engagement with Mr. Darcy.
The party then gathered round the fire to hear Lady Catherine determine what weather they were to have on the morrow.
The recollection of what I then said, of my conduct, my manners, my expressions during the whole of it, is now, and has been many months, inexpressibly painful to me.
_My_ affections and wishes are unchanged, but one word from you will silence me on this subject for ever."
"This is no very striking resemblance of your own character, I am sure," said he.
"With my mother up stairs.
How thankful am I that we never let them know what has been said against him; we must forget it ourselves.
There was another reason too for her opposition.
The children have been wanting me this half hour.
Their other engagements were few, as the style of living in the neighbourhood in general was beyond Mr. Collins's reach.
and turning round he looked for a moment at Elizabeth, till catching her eye, he withdrew his own and coldly said: "She is tolerable, but not handsome enough to tempt _me_; I am in no humour at present to give consequence to young ladies who are slighted by other men.
"I am, dear sir, etc., etc."
I do not remember her name among the ladies at court."
Your character was unfolded in the recital which I received many months ago from Mr. Wickham.
Hear me in silence.
"I confess," said he, "that I should not have been at all surprised by her ladyship's asking us on Sunday to drink tea and spend the evening at Rosings.
Mrs. Long told me last night that he sat close to her for half-an-hour without once opening his lips."
Her younger sisters soon began to make interest with her for objects of happiness which she might in future be able to dispense.
"Indeed, Mamma, you are mistaken," said Elizabeth, blushing for her mother.
"I never can be thankful, Mr. Bennet, for anything about the entail.
He was storing his memory with anecdotes and noble names.
To this Mary very gravely replied, "Far be it from me, my dear sister, to depreciate such pleasures!
Mr. Darcy felt their rudeness, and immediately said:  "This walk is not wide enough for our party.
You are very cautious, I suppose, as to its _being created_."
Miss Darcy, on her brother's entrance, exerted herself much more to talk, and Elizabeth saw that he was anxious for his sister and herself to get acquainted, and forwarded as much as possible, every attempt at conversation on either side.
Do you pay no regard to the wishes of his friends?
The old lady is Mrs. Jenkinson, who lives with them; the other is Miss de Bourgh.
It was reasonable, however, to hope that they would not continue long.
This must be the grossest falsehood!"
Had she found Jane in any apparent danger, Mrs. Bennet would have been very miserable; but being satisfied on seeing her that her illness was not alarming, she had no wish of her recovering immediately, as her restoration to health would probably remove her from Netherfield.
"With great energy; but it is always a subject which makes a lady energetic."
Change of scene might be of service--and perhaps a little relief from home may be as useful as anything."
"Now," said she, "that this first meeting is over, I feel perfectly easy.
The rector of a parish has much to do.
They entered it in one of its lowest points, and drove for some time through a beautiful wood stretching over a wide extent.
And when we _do_ return, it shall not be like other travellers, without being able to give one accurate idea of anything.
My kind friends will not hear of my returning till I am better.
Mr. Collins was carefully instructing them in what they were to expect, that the sight of such rooms, so many servants, and so splendid a dinner, might not wholly overpower them.
I will think no more about him."
It is useless to talk of it."
"Lady Catherine is a very respectable, sensible woman indeed," added Charlotte, "and a most attentive neighbour."
"Aye, no doubt; but that is what a governess will prevent, and if I had known your mother, I should have advised her most strenuously to engage one.
"Good gracious!
I knew enough of your disposition to be certain that, had you been absolutely, irrevocably decided against me, you would have acknowledged it to Lady Catherine, frankly and openly."
"Oh!
I need not explain myself farther; and though _we_ know this anxiety to be quite needless, yet if she feels it, it will easily account for her behaviour to me; and so deservedly dear as he is to his sister, whatever anxiety she must feel on his behalf is natural and amiable.
Her report was highly favourable.
Unwilling as she was to admit an idea so destructive of Jane's happiness, and so dishonorable to the stability of her lover, she could not prevent its frequently occurring.
Elizabeth took the letter from his writing-table, and they went up stairs together.
"You certainly do," she replied with a smile; "but it does not follow that the interruption must be unwelcome."
"Louisa, you will not mind my waking Mr.
His surprise was great.
He owns it himself without disguise."
He had before believed her to return his affection with sincere, if not with equal regard.
I shall send this by express, that no time may be lost in bringing me your answer.
Her mother impatiently met her at the door of the dressing-room, to ask why Lady Catherine would not come in again and rest herself.
Wickham's alarm now appeared in a heightened complexion and agitated look; for a few minutes he was silent, till, shaking off his embarrassment, he turned to her again, and said in the gentlest of accents:  "You, who so well know my feeling towards Mr. Darcy, will readily comprehend how sincerely I must rejoice that he is wise enough to assume even the _appearance_ of what is right.
Do not you, Darcy?"
Mrs. Bennet was restored to her usual querulous serenity; and, by the middle of June, Kitty was so much recovered as to be able to enter Meryton without tears; an event of such happy promise as to make Elizabeth hope that by the following Christmas she might be so tolerably reasonable as not to mention an officer above once a day, unless, by some cruel and malicious arrangement at the War Office, another regiment should be quartered in Meryton.
"My dearest child," she cried, "I can think of nothing else!
You need not.
With a renewal of tenderness, however, they returned to her room on leaving the dining-parlour, and sat with her till summoned to coffee.
Well, well, I only hope it will last.
No, no; I feel he may defy us there.
Stop me whilst you can."
For the last week they had seen very little of Lady Catherine or her daughter.
"But how did he account for it?"
She said no more, and they went down the other dance and parted in silence; and on each side dissatisfied, though not to an equal degree, for in Darcy's breast there was a tolerable powerful feeling towards her, which soon procured her pardon, and directed all his anger against another.
She saw her in idea settled in that very house, in all the felicity which a marriage of true affection could bestow; and she felt capable, under such circumstances, of endeavouring even to like Bingley's two sisters.
Her ladyship seemed pleased with the idea; and you may imagine that I am happy on every occasion to offer those little delicate compliments which are always acceptable to ladies.
If you, my dear father, will not take the trouble of checking her exuberant spirits, and of teaching her that her present pursuits are not to be the business of her life, she will soon be beyond the reach of amendment.
Why did the Forsters ever let her go out of their sight?
It was really a very handsome thought.
Elizabeth, feeling really anxious, was determined to go to her, though the carriage was not to be had; and as she was no horsewoman, walking was her only alternative.
Amongst the most violent against him was Mrs. Bennet, whose dislike of his general behaviour was sharpened into particular resentment by his having slighted one of her daughters.
There was a something in her countenance which made him listen with an apprehensive and anxious attention, while she added:  "When I said that he improved on acquaintance, I did not mean that his mind or his manners were in a state of improvement, but that, from knowing him better, his disposition was better understood."
The business of her life was to get her daughters married; its solace was visiting and news.
"I had not thought Mr. Darcy so bad as this--though I have never liked him.
The whole party were in hopes of a letter from Mr. Bennet the next morning, but the post came in without bringing a single line from him.
Every day added something to their knowledge of the officers' names and connections.
What will become of me.
And there are several of the young men, too, that she likes very much.
The old lady is Mrs. Jenkinson, who lives with them; the other is Miss de Bourgh.
pray apologise for my having disliked him so much before.
She could not bear such suspense; and hastily seizing a sheet of paper, wrote a short letter to her aunt, to request an explanation of what Lydia had dropt, if it were compatible with the secrecy which had been intended.
But, really, I know not what to say.
Even Elizabeth began to fear--not that Bingley was indifferent--but that his sisters would be successful in keeping him away.
This is the last time I shall ever remember it myself."
Sometimes one officer, sometimes another, had been her favourite, as their attentions raised them in her opinion.
She saw that he wanted to engage her on the old subject of his grievances, and she was in no humour to indulge him.
She was less handsome than her brother; but there was sense and good humour in her face, and her manners were perfectly unassuming and gentle.
I was not in a humour to wait for any opening of yours.
"Of whom does Jane ever think ill?
They travelled as expeditiously as possible, and, sleeping one night on the road, reached Longbourn by dinner time the next day.
When a woman has five grown-up daughters, she ought to give over thinking of her own beauty."
He does not want abilities.
However little Mr. Darcy might have liked such an address, he contented himself with coolly replying that he perceived no other alteration than her being rather tanned, no miraculous consequence of travelling in the summer.
This observation would not have prevented her from trying to talk to the latter, had they not been seated at an inconvenient distance; but she was not sorry to be spared the necessity of saying much.
I cannot acquit him of that duty; nor could I think well of the man who should omit an occasion of testifying his respect towards anybody connected with the family."
I should never be happy without him, so think it no harm to be off.
Why does she not come in?"
It is almost past belief.
It was not to be supposed that time would give Lydia that embarrassment from which she had been so wholly free at first.
"I have not a doubt of Mr. Bingley's sincerity," said Elizabeth warmly; "but you must excuse my not being convinced by assurances only.
"Ten thousand pounds!
He had ruined for a while every hope of happiness for the most affectionate, generous heart in the world; and no one could say how lasting an evil he might have inflicted.
Her uncle and aunt were all amazement; and the embarrassment of her manner as she spoke, joined to the circumstance itself, and many of the circumstances of the preceding day, opened to them a new idea on the business.
Oh!
The envelope itself was likewise full.
She was more alive to the disgrace which her want of new clothes must reflect on her daughter's nuptials, than to any sense of shame at her eloping and living with Wickham a fortnight before they took place.
"Oh, yes!--if one could but go to Brighton!
"I think you said she was a widow, sir?
_They_ will never be distressed for money.
"Do you really think so?"
Wherever you and Jane are known you must be respected and valued; and you will not appear to less advantage for having a couple of--or I may say, three--very silly sisters.
Jane recollected herself soon, and putting the letter away, tried to join with her usual cheerfulness in the general conversation; but Elizabeth felt an anxiety on the subject which drew off her attention even from Wickham; and no sooner had he and his companion taken leave, than a glance from Jane invited her to follow her up stairs.
The room in which the ladies sat was backwards.
She talked to Elizabeth again and again; coaxed and threatened her by turns.
About a year ago, she was taken from school, and an establishment formed for her in London; and last summer she went with the lady who presided over it, to Ramsgate; and thither also went Mr. Wickham, undoubtedly by design; for there proved to have been a prior acquaintance between him and Mrs. Younge, in whose character we were most unhappily deceived; and by her connivance and aid, he so far recommended himself to Georgiana, whose affectionate heart retained a strong impression of his kindness to her as a child, that she was persuaded to believe herself in love, and to consent to an elopement.
She had never heard of him before his entrance into the ----shire Militia, in which he had engaged at the persuasion of the young man who, on meeting him accidentally in town, had there renewed a slight acquaintance.
Dear, dear Lizzy.
At present I am not in love with Mr. Wickham; no, I certainly am not.
When Denny, and Wickham, and Pratt, and two or three more of the men came in, they did not know him in the least.
At length there was nothing more to be said; the ladies drove on, and the others returned into the house.
Mr. Darcy drew his chair a little towards her, and said, "_You_ cannot have a right to such very strong local attachment.
replied Kitty, "it looks just like that man that used to be with him before.
She could not determine how her mother would take it; sometimes doubting whether all his wealth and grandeur would be enough to overcome her abhorrence of the man.
cried Elizabeth, "I am excessively diverted.
"_You_ began the evening well, Charlotte," said Mrs. Bennet with civil self-command to Miss Lucas.
He knows where we live.
The vicious propensities--the want of principle, which he was careful to guard from the knowledge of his best friend, could not escape the observation of a young man of nearly the same age with himself, and who had opportunities of seeing him in unguarded moments, which Mr. Darcy could not have.
However little Mr. Darcy might have liked such an address, he contented himself with coolly replying that he perceived no other alteration than her being rather tanned, no miraculous consequence of travelling in the summer.
I hope you have destroyed the letter.
In the afternoon, the two elder Miss Bennets were able to be for half-an-hour by themselves; and Elizabeth instantly availed herself of the opportunity of making any inquiries, which Jane was equally eager to satisfy.
"Can I have the carriage?"
Lydia left a few lines for his wife, informing her of their intention.
Elizabeth, to whom Jane very soon communicated the chief of all this, heard it in silent indignation.
But I know the foundation is unjust.
No, no, you shall not deceive me.
He joined them on their entering the town, and attended them to their aunt's where his regret and vexation, and the concern of everybody, was well talked over.
She really looked almost wild."
Poor Reynolds, she was always very fond of me.
Smiles decked the face of Mrs. Bennet as the carriage drove up to the door; her husband looked impenetrably grave; her daughters, alarmed, anxious, uneasy.
Has he deigned to add aught of civility to his ordinary style?--for I dare not hope," he continued in a lower and more serious tone, "that he is improved in essentials."
it cannot be.
Such I was, from eight to eight and twenty; and such I might still have been but for you, dearest, loveliest Elizabeth!
"Well," cried Elizabeth, "have it as you choose.
"Tell your sister I am delighted to hear of her improvement on the harp; and pray let her know that I am quite in raptures with her beautiful little design for a table, and I think it infinitely superior to Miss Grantley's."
You will not be fit to be seen when you get there."
how would she have behaved?"
She then yawned again, threw aside her book, and cast her eyes round the room in quest for some amusement; when hearing her brother mentioning a ball to Miss Bennet, she turned suddenly towards him and said:  "By the bye, Charles, are you really serious in meditating a dance at Netherfield?
yes.
Had Lydia's marriage been concluded on the most honourable terms, it was not to be supposed that Mr. Darcy would connect himself with a family where, to every other objection, would now be added an alliance and relationship of the nearest kind with a man whom he so justly scorned.
"And this," said she, "is the end of all his friend's anxious circumspection!
He heard her with astonishment.
Maria thought speaking out of the question, and the gentlemen did nothing but eat and admire.
With such kinds of histories of their parties and good jokes, did Lydia, assisted by Kitty's hints and additions, endeavour to amuse her companions all the way to Longbourn.
"And my aunt Phillips is sure it would do _me_ a great deal of good," added Kitty.
Forgive me; and if you persist in indifference, do not make me your confidante."
While Sir William was with them, Mr. Collins devoted his morning to driving him out in his gig, and showing him the country; but when he went away, the whole family returned to their usual employments, and Elizabeth was thankful to find that they did not see more of her cousin by the alteration, for the chief of the time between breakfast and dinner was now passed by him either at work in the garden or in reading and writing, and looking out of the window in his own book-room, which fronted the road.
Elizabeth obeyed, and running into her own room for her parasol, attended her noble guest downstairs.
Oh!
She replied in the affirmative.
It must be his own doing.
"I am the less surprised at what has happened," replied Sir William, "from that knowledge of what the manners of the great really are, which my situation in life has allowed me to acquire.
She is quite a little creature.
Then pray speak aloud.
She wanted to hear of him, when there seemed the least chance of gaining intelligence.
Then, perceiving in Elizabeth no inclination of replying, she added, "Unhappy as the event must be for Lydia, we may draw from it this useful lesson: that loss of virtue in a female is irretrievable; that one false step involves her in endless ruin; that her reputation is no less brittle than it is beautiful; and that she cannot be too much guarded in her behaviour towards the undeserving of the other sex."
I think it would not be very likely to promote sisterly affection or delicacy of mind."
"If I should ever go to Brighton, I would behave better than Lydia."
His character was decided.
"You look pale.
I will not be alarmed though your sister _does_ play so well.
"You shall have it in a few words.
Here was knowledge in which no one could partake; and she was sensible that nothing less than a perfect understanding between the parties could justify her in throwing off this last encumbrance of mystery.
cried Elizabeth, when she had finished.
"Upon my word, I say no more _here_ than I might say in any house in the neighbourhood, except Netherfield.
The children have been wanting me this half hour.
"I am far from attributing any part of Mr. Bingley's conduct to design," said Elizabeth; "but without scheming to do wrong, or to make others unhappy, there may be error, and there may be misery.
Elizabeth could not but look surprised.
We had better go into the avenue."
Elizabeth would not observe her; and when at last Kitty did, she very innocently said, "What is the matter mamma?
Well, he certainly is very agreeable, and I give you leave to like him.
This observation would not have prevented her from trying to talk to the latter, had they not been seated at an inconvenient distance; but she was not sorry to be spared the necessity of saying much.
And when the party entered the assembly room it consisted of only five altogether--Mr. Bingley, his two sisters, the husband of the eldest, and another young man.
Lord bless me!
Allow me to say, however, that your fair partner does not disgrace you, and that I must hope to have this pleasure often repeated, especially when a certain desirable event, my dear Eliza (glancing at her sister and Bingley) shall take place.
If it were not allowable for him to gain _my_ affections because I had no money, what occasion could there be for making love to a girl whom he did not care about, and who was equally poor?"
Well, any friend of Mr. Bingley's will always be welcome here, to be sure; but else I must say that I hate the very sight of him."
Pray make my excuses to Pratt for not keeping my engagement, and dancing with him to-night.
I shall now know how to act.
A single man of large fortune; four or five thousand a year.
Haggerston has our directions, and all will be completed in a week.
The surprise of such an application was great indeed; it was too great for her to know in what manner she acceded to it.
She inquired into Charlotte's domestic concerns familiarly and minutely, gave her a great deal of advice as to the management of them all; told her how everything ought to be regulated in so small a family as hers, and instructed her as to the care of her cows and her poultry.
It was really a very handsome thought.
Do not involve yourself or endeavour to involve him in an affection which the want of fortune would make so very imprudent.
Their visitors stayed with them above half-an-hour; and when they arose to depart, Mr. Darcy called on his sister to join him in expressing their wish of seeing Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner, and Miss Bennet, to dinner at Pemberley, before they left the country.
"Insolent girl!"
Your conduct would be quite as dependent on chance as that of any man I know; and if, as you were mounting your horse, a friend were to say, 'Bingley, you had better stay till next week,' you would probably do it, you would probably not go--and at another word, might stay a month."
She looked at his two sisters, and saw them making signs of derision at each other, and at Darcy, who continued, however, imperturbably grave.
said he, as he joined her.
The next morning, however, made an alteration; for in a quarter of an hour's tete-a-tete with Mrs. Bennet before breakfast, a conversation beginning with his parsonage-house, and leading naturally to the avowal of his hopes, that a mistress might be found for it at Longbourn, produced from her, amid very complaisant smiles and general encouragement, a caution against the very Jane he had fixed on.
I understand that Mr. Collins has made you an offer of marriage.
My youngest of all is lately married, and my eldest is somewhere about the grounds, walking with a young man who, I believe, will soon become a part of the family."
Mr. Darcy spoke with affectionate praise of his sister's proficiency.
I do assure you that my intimacy has not yet taught me _that_.
I am truly glad, dearest Lizzy, that you have been spared something of these distressing scenes; but now, as the first shock is over, shall I own that I long for your return?
Elizabeth looked at her sister with incredulous solicitude, but said nothing.
I am glad of one thing, that he comes alone; because we shall see the less of him.
She then yawned again, threw aside her book, and cast her eyes round the room in quest for some amusement; when hearing her brother mentioning a ball to Miss Bennet, she turned suddenly towards him and said:  "By the bye, Charles, are you really serious in meditating a dance at Netherfield?
Her ladyship received them civilly, but it was plain that their company was by no means so acceptable as when she could get nobody else; and she was, in fact, almost engrossed by her nephews, speaking to them, especially to Darcy, much more than to any other person in the room.
Elizabeth listened with delight to the happy, though modest hopes which Jane entertained of Mr. Bingley's regard, and said all in her power to heighten her confidence in it.
Oh, that I knew how it was!"
Between him and Darcy there was a very steady friendship, in spite of great opposition of character.
"This is the only point, I flatter myself, on which we do not agree.
"As I did the other day," said Elizabeth with a conscious smile: "very true, it will be wise in me to refrain from _that_.
I quite forgot!
It was a fortnight since Mrs. Bennet had been downstairs; but on this happy day she again took her seat at the head of her table, and in spirits oppressively high.
Miss Bingley saw all this likewise; and, in the imprudence of anger, took the first opportunity of saying, with sneering civility:  "Pray, Miss Eliza, are not the ----shire Militia removed from Meryton?
"I wish I might take this for a compliment; but to be so easily seen through I am afraid is pitiful."
"Will it not be advisable, before we proceed on this subject, to arrange with rather more precision the degree of importance which is to appertain to this request, as well as the degree of intimacy subsisting between the parties?"
"Not that I _shall_, though," she added to herself, as she finished the letter; "and my dear aunt, if you do not tell me in an honourable manner, I shall certainly be reduced to tricks and stratagems to find it out."
With no greater events than these in the Longbourn family, and otherwise diversified by little beyond the walks to Meryton, sometimes dirty and sometimes cold, did January and February pass away.
said her aunt; "a place, too, with which so many of your acquaintances are connected.
"Our habits of expense make us too dependent, and there are not many in my rank of life who can afford to marry without some attention to money."
To this speech Bingley made no answer; but his sisters gave it their hearty assent, and indulged their mirth for some time at the expense of their dear friend's vulgar relations.
Elizabeth's impatience to acquaint Jane with what had happened could no longer be overcome; and at length, resolving to suppress every particular in which her sister was concerned, and preparing her to be surprised, she related to her the next morning the chief of the scene between Mr. Darcy and herself.
"There certainly was some great mismanagement in the education of those two young men.
"I should like it beyond anything!"
"If you were to give me forty such men, I never could be so happy as you.
"Lizzy," said he, "what are you doing?
"These are heavy misfortunes," replied Elizabeth.
It was necessary to laugh, when she would rather have cried.
An express came at twelve last night, just as we were all gone to bed, from Colonel Forster, to inform us that she was gone off to Scotland with one of his officers; to own the truth, with Wickham!
"And was Denny convinced that Wickham would not marry?
Not one party, or scheme, or anything.
He was seriously concerned that a cause of so little advantage to anyone should be forwarded at the sole expense of his brother-in-law, and he was determined, if possible, to find out the extent of his assistance, and to discharge the obligation as soon as he could.
She anticipated what would be felt in the family when her situation became known; she was aware that no one liked him but Jane; and even feared that with the others it was a dislike which not all his fortune and consequence might do away.
Elizabeth was not comfortable; that was impossible; but she was flattered and pleased.
They agreed that Mrs. Bennet should only hear of the departure of the family, without being alarmed on the score of the gentleman's conduct; but even this partial communication gave her a great deal of concern, and she bewailed it as exceedingly unlucky that the ladies should happen to go away just as they were all getting so intimate together.
Bingley expressed great pleasure in the certainty of seeing Elizabeth again, having still a great deal to say to her, and many inquiries to make after all their Hertfordshire friends.
They are young in the ways of the world, and not yet open to the mortifying conviction that handsome young men must have something to live on as well as the plain."
Well, if they can be easy with an estate that is not lawfully their own, so much the better.
The moral will be perfectly fair.
She had not at first thought very seriously of going thither; but Charlotte, she soon found, was depending on the plan and she gradually learned to consider it herself with greater pleasure as well as greater certainty.
In vain did Elizabeth attempt to make her reasonable, and Jane to make her resigned.
Such a charming man!--so handsome!
"I do not believe Mrs. Long will do any such thing.
repeated Darcy contemptuously; "yes, his misfortunes have been great indeed."
Of the lady's sensations they remained a little in doubt; but that the gentleman was overflowing with admiration was evident enough.
After this period every appearance of acquaintance was dropped.
Elizabeth was pleased to find that he had not betrayed the interference of his friend; for, though Jane had the most generous and forgiving heart in the world, she knew it was a circumstance which must prejudice her against him.
The idea soon reached to conviction, as she observed his increasing civilities toward herself, and heard his frequent attempt at a compliment on her wit and vivacity; and though more astonished than gratified herself by this effect of her charms, it was not long before her mother gave her to understand that the probability of their marriage was extremely agreeable to _her_.
His debts to be discharged, and something still to remain!
But he had given a reason for his interference, which asked no extraordinary stretch of belief.
Perhaps I did not always love him so well as I do now.
"And can you likewise declare, that there is no foundation for it?"
She is a very great favourite with some ladies of my acquaintance, Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley.
If it be not so, let Mr. Darcy contradict it.
"Read it aloud," said their father, "for I hardly know myself what it is about."
She replied in the affirmative.
"I understood that there were some very strong objections against the lady."
"It is only evident that Miss Bingley does not mean that he _should_."
It was borne in the latter with decent philosophy.
He acknowledged the truth of it all, and said that business with his steward had occasioned his coming forward a few hours before the rest of the party with whom he had been travelling.
"Insolent girl!"
She had always spoken to him as she would to any other gentleman; she made not the smallest objection to his joining in the society of the neighbourhood nor to his leaving the parish occasionally for a week or two, to visit his relations.
As he quitted the room, Elizabeth felt how improbable it was that they should ever see each other again on such terms of cordiality as had marked their several meetings in Derbyshire; and as she threw a retrospective glance over the whole of their acquaintance, so full of contradictions and varieties, sighed at the perverseness of those feelings which would now have promoted its continuance, and would formerly have rejoiced in its termination.
Mr. Bennet made no answer.
"And do you really know all this?"
Let me then advise you, dear sir, to console yourself as much as possible, to throw off your unworthy child from your affection for ever, and leave her to reap the fruits of her own heinous offense.
Your idea of the ponies is delightful.
But I am willing to hope the best, and that his character has been misunderstood.
Young ladies have great penetration in such matters as these; but I think I may defy even _your_ sagacity, to discover the name of your admirer.
Her tour to the Lakes was now the object of her happiest thoughts; it was her best consolation for all the uncomfortable hours which the discontentedness of her mother and Kitty made inevitable; and could she have included Jane in the scheme, every part of it would have been perfect.
"A man in distressed circumstances has not time for all those elegant decorums which other people may observe.
Wretched, wretched mistake!"
Elizabeth could not see Lady Catherine without recollecting that, had she chosen it, she might by this time have been presented to her as her future niece; nor could she think, without a smile, of what her ladyship's indignation would have been.
That _she_ could be in any danger from the deception never entered my head.
By all that I have ever read, I am convinced that it is very common indeed; that human nature is particularly prone to it, and that there are very few of us who do not cherish a feeling of self-complacency on the score of some quality or other, real or imaginary.
said Elizabeth.
He is rich, to be sure, and you may have more fine clothes and fine carriages than Jane.
Are you lost to every feeling of propriety and delicacy?
Nothing that she could say, however, had any influence.
"A man who had felt less, might."
The conversation soon turned upon fishing; and she heard Mr. Darcy invite him, with the greatest civility, to fish there as often as he chose while he continued in the neighbourhood, offering at the same time to supply him with fishing tackle, and pointing out those parts of the stream where there was usually most sport.
I do assure you that the news does not affect me either with pleasure or pain.
"I am astonished," said Miss Bingley, "that my father should have left so small a collection of books.
When a woman has five grown-up daughters, she ought to give over thinking of her own beauty."
Indeed you must go, for it will be impossible for _us_ to visit him if you do not."
Bingley urged Mr. Jones being sent for immediately; while his sisters, convinced that no country advice could be of any service, recommended an express to town for one of the most eminent physicians.
The congratulatory letter which Elizabeth received from Lydia on her marriage, explained to her that, by his wife at least, if not by himself, such a hope was cherished.
"And my aunt Phillips is sure it would do _me_ a great deal of good," added Kitty.
"Indeed I do not dare."
It was, moreover, such a promising thing for her younger daughters, as Jane's marrying so greatly must throw them in the way of other rich men; and lastly, it was so pleasant at her time of life to be able to consign her single daughters to the care of their sister, that she might not be obliged to go into company more than she liked.
She was a woman of mean understanding, little information, and uncertain temper.
She had no fear of its spreading farther through his means.
"I am, dear sir, etc., etc."
"I never saw anyone so shocked.
Lizzy is not a bit better than the others; and I am sure she is not half so handsome as Jane, nor half so good-humoured as Lydia.
yes.
You are charmingly grouped, and appear to uncommon advantage.
You were disgusted with the women who were always speaking, and looking, and thinking for _your_ approbation alone.
"True.
It needed all Jane's steady mildness to bear these attacks with tolerable tranquillity.
They look upon it as quite their own, I dare say, whenever that happens."
A day or two passed before Jane had courage to speak of her feelings to Elizabeth; but at last, on Mrs. Bennet's leaving them together, after a longer irritation than usual about Netherfield and its master, she could not help saying:  "Oh, that my dear mother had more command over herself!
It would vex me, indeed, to see you again the dupe of Miss Bingley's pretended regard."
"You certainly do," she replied with a smile; "but it does not follow that the interruption must be unwelcome."
The pain of separation, however, might be alleviated on his side, by preparations for the reception of his bride; as he had reason to hope, that shortly after his return into Hertfordshire, the day would be fixed that was to make him the happiest of men.
"Let me be rightly understood.
Jane, I take your place now, and you must go lower, because I am a married woman."
You dare not, you cannot deny, that you have been the principal, if not the only means of dividing them from each other--of exposing one to the censure of the world for caprice and instability, and the other to its derision for disappointed hopes, and involving them both in misery of the acutest kind."
"I see your design, Bingley," said his friend.
She is up stairs and will have great satisfaction in seeing you all.
Kitty then owned, with a very natural triumph on knowing more than the rest of us, that in Lydia's last letter she had prepared her for such a step.
"That it ought not to be attempted.
In this manner Lady Catherine talked on, till they were at the door of the carriage, when, turning hastily round, she added, "I take no leave of you, Miss Bennet.
How he lived I know not.
However, he wrote some verses on her, and very pretty they were."
"Now I am quite happy," said she, "for you will be as happy as myself.
I knew nothing at all of Lady Catherine's connections.
She dreaded seeing Mr. Wickham again, and was resolved to avoid it as long as possible.
Three daughters married!
"Not at all," was her answer; "but depend upon it, he means to be severe on us, and our surest way of disappointing him will be to ask nothing about it."
He was quite young, wonderfully handsome, extremely agreeable, and, to crown the whole, he meant to be at the next assembly with a large party.
I, who have valued myself on my abilities!
All expectation from the brother was now absolutely over.
My father was not only fond of this young man's society, whose manners were always engaging; he had also the highest opinion of him, and hoping the church would be his profession, intended to provide for him in it.
The possibility of meeting Mr. Darcy, while viewing the place, instantly occurred.
In ran Mrs. Bennet to her daughter's room, in her dressing gown, and with her hair half finished, crying out:  "My dear Jane, make haste and hurry down.
"My dear sir," replied Mr. Collins, "I am particularly obliged to you for this friendly caution, and you may depend upon my not taking so material a step without her ladyship's concurrence."
She hated having visitors in the house while her health was so indifferent, and lovers were of all people the most disagreeable.
She had fully proposed being engaged by Mr. Wickham for those very dances; and to have Mr. Collins instead!
On the following Monday, Mrs. Bennet had the pleasure of receiving her brother and his wife, who came as usual to spend the Christmas at Longbourn.
Are you out of your senses, to be accepting this man?
Last Christmas you were afraid of his marrying me, because it would be imprudent; and now, because he is trying to get a girl with only ten thousand pounds, you want to find out that he is mercenary."
"You dislike an argument, and want to silence this."
"You make me laugh, Charlotte; but it is not sound.
Elizabeth could not oppose such a wish; and from this time Mr. Bingley's name was scarcely ever mentioned between them.
"I am very sensible, madam, of the hardship to my fair cousins, and could say much on the subject, but that I am cautious of appearing forward and precipitate.
It is Mr. Wickham's intention to go into the regulars; and among his former friends, there are still some who are able and willing to assist him in the army.
"You can now have nothing further to say," she resentfully answered.
But the fact is, that being, as I am, to inherit this estate after the death of your honoured father (who, however, may live many years longer), I could not satisfy myself without resolving to choose a wife from among his daughters, that the loss to them might be as little as possible, when the melancholy event takes place--which, however, as I have already said, may not be for several years.
If it were not allowable for him to gain _my_ affections because I had no money, what occasion could there be for making love to a girl whom he did not care about, and who was equally poor?"
Lady Catherine listened to half a song, and then talked, as before, to her other nephew; till the latter walked away from her, and making with his usual deliberation towards the pianoforte stationed himself so as to command a full view of the fair performer's countenance.
If it were not allowable for him to gain _my_ affections because I had no money, what occasion could there be for making love to a girl whom he did not care about, and who was equally poor?"
Though our kind uncle has done something towards clearing him, I cannot believe that ten thousand pounds, or anything like it, has been advanced.
"Then, my dear, you may have the advantage of your friend, and introduce Mr. Bingley to _her_."
"From the former.
Mrs. Long told me last night that he sat close to her for half-an-hour without once opening his lips."
She had once or twice suggested to Elizabeth the possibility of his being partial to her, but Elizabeth always laughed at the idea; and Mrs. Collins did not think it right to press the subject, from the danger of raising expectations which might only end in disappointment; for in her opinion it admitted not of a doubt, that all her friend's dislike would vanish, if she could suppose him to be in her power.
"Pray let me hear what you have to accuse him of," cried Colonel Fitzwilliam.
In that county there was enough to be seen to occupy the chief of their three weeks; and to Mrs. Gardiner it had a peculiarly strong attraction.
The world has been deceived in that respect; and I am happy to say there will be some little money, even when all his debts are discharged, to settle on my niece, in addition to her own fortune.
As the weather was fine, they had a pleasant walk of about half a mile across the park.
I had narrowly observed her during the two visits which I had lately made here; and I was convinced of her affection."
She asked her, at different times, how many sisters she had, whether they were older or younger than herself, whether any of them were likely to be married, whether they were handsome, where they had been educated, what carriage her father kept, and what had been her mother's maiden name?
Mr. Robinson's asking him how he liked our Meryton assemblies, and whether he did not think there were a great many pretty women in the room, and _which_ he thought the prettiest?
They all paint tables, cover screens, and net purses.
I have not been used to submit to any person's whims.
"This is a wretched beginning indeed!
As the weather was fine, they had a pleasant walk of about half a mile across the park.
"Oh!
Thus much for my general intention in favour of matrimony; it remains to be told why my views were directed towards Longbourn instead of my own neighbourhood, where I can assure you there are many amiable young women.
If his own vanity, however, did not mislead him, _he_ was the cause, his pride and caprice were the cause, of all that Jane had suffered, and still continued to suffer.
"For the liveliness of your mind, I did."
This was not very consoling to Mrs. Bennet, and therefore, instead of making any answer, she went on as before.
"But does Lydia know nothing of this?
You will never recommend yourself to his friend by so doing!"
He expressed no regret for what he had done which satisfied her; his style was not penitent, but haughty.
Elizabeth found that nothing was beneath this great lady's attention, which could furnish her with an occasion of dictating to others.
Her curiosity, however, was unexpectedly relieved.
With a triumphant smile they were told that it was ten miles round.
"Yes, always," she replied, without knowing what she said, for her thoughts had wandered far from the subject, as soon afterwards appeared by her suddenly exclaiming, "I remember hearing you once say, Mr. Darcy, that you hardly ever forgave, that your resentment once created was unappeasable.
So high and so conceited that there was no enduring him!
As a child, she was affectionate and pleasing, and extremely fond of me; and I have devoted hours and hours to her amusement.
I am sorry to have occasioned pain to anyone.
Mrs. Reynolds could interest her on no other point.
But when they had withdrawn, he said to her: "Mrs. Bennet, before you take any or all of these houses for your son and daughter, let us come to a right understanding.
The vague and unsettled suspicions which uncertainty had produced of what Mr. Darcy might have been doing to forward her sister's match, which she had feared to encourage as an exertion of goodness too great to be probable, and at the same time dreaded to be just, from the pain of obligation, were proved beyond their greatest extent to be true!
"What is all settled?"
They agreed that Mrs. Bennet should only hear of the departure of the family, without being alarmed on the score of the gentleman's conduct; but even this partial communication gave her a great deal of concern, and she bewailed it as exceedingly unlucky that the ladies should happen to go away just as they were all getting so intimate together.
"And are they upon such terms as for her to disclose the real truth?
"All this she must possess," added Darcy, "and to all this she must yet add something more substantial, in the improvement of her mind by extensive reading."
The situation of affairs in the Longbourn family could not be long a secret.
That she should have walked three miles so early in the day, in such dirty weather, and by herself, was almost incredible to Mrs. Hurst and Miss Bingley; and Elizabeth was convinced that they held her in contempt for it.
Your father would depend on _your_ resolution and good conduct, I am sure.
"It is a delightful thing, to be sure, to have a daughter well married," continued her mother, "but at the same time, Mr. Bingley, it is very hard to have her taken such a way from me.
Oh!
"Nor I, I am sure," said Miss Bingley.
In vain did Elizabeth endeavour to check the rapidity of her mother's words, or persuade her to describe her felicity in a less audible whisper; for, to her inexpressible vexation, she could perceive that the chief of it was overheard by Mr. Darcy, who sat opposite to them.
Elizabeth found herself quite equal to the scene, and could observe the three ladies before her composedly.
In spite of this amendment, however, she requested to have a note sent to Longbourn, desiring her mother to visit Jane, and form her own judgement of her situation.
He takes them now for people of fashion."
He called it, therefore, his duty to step forward, and endeavour to remedy an evil which had been brought on by himself.
You tear them to pieces."
It cannot be concealed from anyone.
When she thought of her mother, her confidence gave way a little; but she would not allow that any objections _there_ had material weight with Mr. Darcy, whose pride, she was convinced, would receive a deeper wound from the want of importance in his friend's connections, than from their want of sense; and she was quite decided, at last, that he had been partly governed by this worst kind of pride, and partly by the wish of retaining Mr. Bingley for his sister.
"I am very sensible, madam, of the hardship to my fair cousins, and could say much on the subject, but that I am cautious of appearing forward and precipitate.
She knew not the exact degree of his affection for his aunt, or his dependence on her judgment, but it was natural to suppose that he thought much higher of her ladyship than _she_ could do; and it was certain that, in enumerating the miseries of a marriage with _one_, whose immediate connections were so unequal to his own, his aunt would address him on his weakest side.
Mr. Bennet's expectations were fully answered.
Mrs. Phillips's vulgarity was another, and perhaps a greater, tax on his forbearance; and though Mrs. Phillips, as well as her sister, stood in too much awe of him to speak with the familiarity which Bingley's good humour encouraged, yet, whenever she _did_ speak, she must be vulgar.
You alluded to something else.
Elizabeth coloured, and said: "A little."
"And they _must_ marry!
She was more alive to the disgrace which her want of new clothes must reflect on her daughter's nuptials, than to any sense of shame at her eloping and living with Wickham a fortnight before they took place.
In a short time I shall have a daughter married.
They saw him often, and to his other recommendations was now added that of general unreserve.
I was so afraid, you know, that something would happen to put it off, and then I should have gone quite distracted.
Who would have thought that she could be so thin and small?"
She is the sort of woman whom one cannot regard with too much deference."
They then went away.
Perhaps he thought her too young.
They ran through the vestibule into the breakfast-room; from thence to the library; their father was in neither; and they were on the point of seeking him up stairs with their mother, when they were met by the butler, who said:  "If you are looking for my master, ma'am, he is walking towards the little copse."
You ought certainly to forgive them, as a Christian, but never to admit them in your sight, or allow their names to be mentioned in your hearing.'
My dear Jane, I am in such a flutter, that I am sure I can't write; so I will dictate, and you write for me.
Lady Catherine hesitated for a moment, and then replied:  "The engagement between them is of a peculiar kind.
I wonder when you _would_ have spoken, if I had not asked you!
Her niece was, therefore, obliged to submit, and they took their way towards the house on the opposite side of the river, in the nearest direction; but their progress was slow, for Mr. Gardiner, though seldom able to indulge the taste, was very fond of fishing, and was so much engaged in watching the occasional appearance of some trout in the water, and talking to the man about them, that he advanced but little.
Her father had most cruelly mortified her, by what he said of Mr. Darcy's indifference, and she could do nothing but wonder at such a want of penetration, or fear that perhaps, instead of his seeing too little, she might have fancied too much.
"I see your design, Bingley," said his friend.
Much as I abominate writing, I would not give up Mr. Collins's correspondence for any consideration.
said her aunt; "a place, too, with which so many of your acquaintances are connected.
They talked of his sister, his friends, his house, his fruit--of everything but himself; yet Elizabeth was longing to know what Mrs. Gardiner thought of him, and Mrs. Gardiner would have been highly gratified by her niece's beginning the subject.
"You must not blame my aunt.
I often tell my other girls they are nothing to _her_.
Arguments are too much like disputes.
"I do not believe a word of it, my dear.
"She is so fond of Mrs. Forster," said she, "it will be quite shocking to send her away!
Mr. Collins was also in the same state of angry pride.
I congratulate her.
I am afraid you will be angry."
Yes, yes.
He has many friends, and is at a time of life when friends and engagements are continually increasing."
Mrs. Gardiner and the children were to remain in Hertfordshire a few days longer, as the former thought her presence might be serviceable to her nieces.
"No--I do not know that you were wrong in saying what you did."
But it ended in nothing, and I will not be sent on a fool's errand again."
"You are too hasty, sir," she cried.
Why, he has four or five thousand a year, and very likely more."
She really looked almost wild."
"No, not at all."
Each felt for the other, and of course for themselves; and their mother talked on, of her dislike of Mr. Darcy, and her resolution to be civil to him only as Mr. Bingley's friend, without being heard by either of them.
They had now entered a beautiful walk by the side of the water, and every step was bringing forward a nobler fall of ground, or a finer reach of the woods to which they were approaching; but it was some time before Elizabeth was sensible of any of it; and, though she answered mechanically to the repeated appeals of her uncle and aunt, and seemed to direct her eyes to such objects as they pointed out, she distinguished no part of the scene.
Mr. Wickham's adieus were much more affectionate than his wife's.
Charlotte hardly had time to answer, before they were joined by Kitty, who came to tell the same news; and no sooner had they entered the breakfast-room, where Mrs. Bennet was alone, than she likewise began on the subject, calling on Miss Lucas for her compassion, and entreating her to persuade her friend Lizzy to comply with the wishes of all her family.
My objections to the marriage were not merely those which I last night acknowledged to have the utmost force of passion to put aside, in my own case; the want of connection could not be so great an evil to my friend as to me.
"Good Heaven!
His countenance rather gained in austerity; and he scarcely opened his lips.
Elizabeth allowed that he had given a very rational account of it, and they continued talking together, with mutual satisfaction till supper put an end to cards, and gave the rest of the ladies their share of Mr. Wickham's attentions.
She wanted to hear of him, when there seemed the least chance of gaining intelligence.
Mr. Darcy has not authorised me to make his communication public.
"And was Denny convinced that Wickham would not marry?
"Such as vanity and pride."
He is so excessively handsome!
And now here's Mr. Bennet gone away, and I know he will fight Wickham, wherever he meets him and then he will be killed, and what is to become of us all?
But wishes were vain, or at least could only serve to amuse her in the hurry and confusion of the following hour.
They walked on, without knowing in what direction.
With assumed tranquillity he then replied: "I have no wish of denying that I did everything in my power to separate my friend from your sister, or that I rejoice in my success.
People do not die of little trifling colds.
"Yes, in conjunction with his friend."
pray make haste and come into the dining-room, for there is such a sight to be seen!
"If he does not come to me, _then_," said she, "I shall give him up for ever."
I think every thing has passed off uncommonly well, I assure you.
Ring the bell, Kitty, for Hill.
"They are generally long; but whether always charming it is not for me to determine."
He did not judge your father to be a person whom he could so properly consult as your uncle, and therefore readily postponed seeing him till after the departure of the former.
"Pray let me hear what you have to accuse him of," cried Colonel Fitzwilliam.
She was _now_ struck with the impropriety of such communications to a stranger, and wondered it had escaped her before.
Darcy!"
She saw, with the creative eye of fancy, the streets of that gay bathing-place covered with officers.
It now occurred to the girls that their mother was in all likelihood perfectly ignorant of what had happened.
"He is just what a young man ought to be," said she, "sensible, good-humoured, lively; and I never saw such happy manners!--so much ease, with such perfect good breeding!"
"_You_ were Mr. Bingley's first choice."
"And what am I to do on the occasion?
"I am afraid, Mr. Darcy," observed Miss Bingley in a half whisper, "that this adventure has rather affected your admiration of her fine eyes."
Charlotte is an excellent manager, I dare say.
I am afraid you will be angry."
"Lady Catherine has been of infinite use, which ought to make her happy, for she loves to be of use.
Mrs. Bennet could not give her consent or speak her approbation in terms warm enough to satisfy her feelings, though she talked to Bingley of nothing else for half an hour; and when Mr. Bennet joined them at supper, his voice and manner plainly showed how really happy he was.
"But perhaps you would like to read it."
Conceal the unhappy truth as long as it is possible, I know it cannot be long."
Such formidable accounts of her ladyship, and her manner of living, quite frightened Maria Lucas who had been little used to company, and she looked forward to her introduction at Rosings with as much apprehension as her father had done to his presentation at St. James's.
Elizabeth laughed heartily at this picture of herself, and said to Colonel Fitzwilliam, "Your cousin will give you a very pretty notion of me, and teach you not to believe a word I say.
After sitting long enough to admire every article of furniture in the room, from the sideboard to the fender, to give an account of their journey, and of all that had happened in London, Mr. Collins invited them to take a stroll in the garden, which was large and well laid out, and to the cultivation of which he attended himself.
"I have been making the tour of the park," he replied, "as I generally do every year, and intend to close it with a call at the Parsonage.
If they believed him attached to me, they would not try to part us; if he were so, they could not succeed.
the ladies had crowded round the table, where Miss Bennet was making tea, and Elizabeth pouring out the coffee, in so close a confederacy that there was not a single vacancy near her which would admit of a chair.
It is a pity that great ladies in general are not more like her.
"But consider your daughters.
"Yes, there can; for mine is totally different.
I write without any intention of paining you, or humbling myself, by dwelling on wishes which, for the happiness of both, cannot be too soon forgotten; and the effort which the formation and the perusal of this letter must occasion, should have been spared, had not my character required it to be written and read.
So far each recital confirmed the other; but when she came to the will, the difference was great.
Some time hence it will be all found out, and then we may laugh at their stupidity in not knowing it before.
My dear aunt, how could you think of it?
Let the other young ladies have time to exhibit."
She had always spoken to him as she would to any other gentleman; she made not the smallest objection to his joining in the society of the neighbourhood nor to his leaving the parish occasionally for a week or two, to visit his relations.
What does he say?
"La!
Mrs. Phillips was quite awed by such an excess of good breeding; but her contemplation of one stranger was soon put to an end by exclamations and inquiries about the other; of whom, however, she could only tell her nieces what they already knew, that Mr. Denny had brought him from London, and that he was to have a lieutenant's commission in the ----shire.
The idea lasted while a turning in the walk concealed him from their view; the turning past, he was immediately before them.
The faces of both, however, were tolerably calm; and no change was visible in either, except that the loss of her favourite sister, or the anger which she had herself incurred in this business, had given more of fretfulness than usual to the accents of Kitty.
At last she recollected that she had been travelling, and they talked of Matlock and Dove Dale with great perseverance.
You mentioned _two_ instances.
I do not know a place in the country that is equal to Netherfield.
Your daughter Elizabeth, it is presumed, will not long bear the name of Bennet, after her elder sister has resigned it, and the chosen partner of her fate may be reasonably looked up to as one of the most illustrious personages in this land.'
"Tell your sister I am delighted to hear of her improvement on the harp; and pray let her know that I am quite in raptures with her beautiful little design for a table, and I think it infinitely superior to Miss Grantley's."
The horses were post; and neither the carriage, nor the livery of the servant who preceded it, were familiar to them.
The gentlemen came; and she thought he looked as if he would have answered her hopes; but, alas!
He carved, and ate, and praised with delighted alacrity; and every dish was commended, first by him and then by Sir William, who was now enough recovered to echo whatever his son-in-law said, in a manner which Elizabeth wondered Lady Catherine could bear.
Mr. Darcy danced only once with Mrs. Hurst and once with Miss Bingley, declined being introduced to any other lady, and spent the rest of the evening in walking about the room, speaking occasionally to one of his own party.
Here you are in your own family."
You will easily comprehend, from these particulars, that Mr. Wickham's circumstances are not so hopeless as they are generally believed to be.
The latter part of this address was scarcely heard by Darcy; but Sir William's allusion to his friend seemed to strike him forcibly, and his eyes were directed with a very serious expression towards Bingley and Jane, who were dancing together.
She was no sooner in possession of it than, hurrying into the little copse, where she was least likely to be interrupted, she sat down on one of the benches and prepared to be happy; for the length of the letter convinced her that it did not contain a denial.
Never had his wit been directed in a manner so little agreeable to her.
But, unluckily for her ladyship, its effect had been exactly contrariwise.
Mr. Darcy, you cannot deny the fact."
"I did not know that you intended to walk," said Miss Bingley, in some confusion, lest they had been overheard.
Wickham will never marry a woman without some money.
Mr. Darcy's letter to Lady Catherine was in a different style; and still different from either was what Mr. Bennet sent to Mr. Collins, in reply to his last.
In a few days Mr. Bingley returned Mr. Bennet's visit, and sat about ten minutes with him in his library.
His behaviour was attentive and kind to the utmost.
The officers will find women better worth their notice.
I quite forgot!
"Perhaps preparing for his marriage with Miss de Bourgh," said Elizabeth.
Oh that I had been with you!
Jane's temper was not desponding, and she was gradually led to hope, though the diffidence of affection sometimes overcame the hope, that Bingley would return to Netherfield and answer every wish of her heart.
Mr. Darcy is engaged to my daughter.
They soon outstripped the others, and when they had reached the carriage, Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner were half a quarter of a mile behind.
Many of his expressions were still fresh in her memory.
Not to appear to disgrace his family, to degenerate from the popular qualities, or lose the influence of the Pemberley House, is a powerful motive.
She then joined them soon enough to see Lydia, with anxious parade, walk up to her mother's right hand, and hear her say to her eldest sister, "Ah!
More than once did Elizabeth, in her ramble within the park, unexpectedly meet Mr. Darcy.
I do not know who is good enough for him."
"You are too hasty, sir," she cried.
When they were all in the drawing-room, the questions which Elizabeth had already asked were of course repeated by the others, and they soon found that Jane had no intelligence to give.
Upon my honour, I never met with so many pleasant girls in my life as I have this evening; and there are several of them you see uncommonly pretty."
I am almost the nearest relation he has in the world, and am entitled to know all his dearest concerns."
But I can assure the young ladies that I come prepared to admire them.
Your sweetness and disinterestedness are really angelic; I do not know what to say to you.
The kindness of my uncle and aunt can never be requited.
"It is a compliment which I never pay to any place if I can avoid it."
"My dear Lizzy, do not give way to such feelings as these.
"You may depend on it," replied the other, "for Mrs. Nicholls was in Meryton last night; I saw her passing by, and went out myself on purpose to know the truth of it; and she told me that it was certain true.
Your uncle is as much surprised as I am--and nothing but the belief of your being a party concerned would have allowed him to act as he has done.
You tear them to pieces."
I should be sorry to think so ill of him, in the very beginning of our relationship."
He is come--Mr. Bingley is come.
"It does seem, and it is most shocking indeed," replied Elizabeth, with tears in her eyes, "that a sister's sense of decency and virtue in such a point should admit of doubt.
Sir William had been delighted with him.
Let me thank you again and again, in the name of all my family, for that generous compassion which induced you to take so much trouble, and bear so many mortifications, for the sake of discovering them."
It might seem as if she had purposely thrown herself in his way again!
His character is thereby complete."
Nobody can tell what I suffer!
Change of scene might be of service--and perhaps a little relief from home may be as useful as anything."
and turning round he looked for a moment at Elizabeth, till catching her eye, he withdrew his own and coldly said: "She is tolerable, but not handsome enough to tempt _me_; I am in no humour at present to give consequence to young ladies who are slighted by other men.
That such a consequence as _this_ could ensue, you may easily believe, was far enough from my thoughts."
He only meant that there was not such a variety of people to be met with in the country as in the town, which you must acknowledge to be true."
He leaves out half his words, and blots the rest."
Sir William stayed only a week at Hunsford, but his visit was long enough to convince him of his daughter's being most comfortably settled, and of her possessing such a husband and such a neighbour as were not often met with.
Lord bless me!
But vanity, not love, has been my folly.
If I were to go through the world, I could not meet with a better.
To this discovery succeeded some others equally mortifying.
"He did not talk to me of his own arts," said Fitzwilliam, smiling.
If _she_ does not object to it, why should _we_?"
"Oh, yes!--if one could but go to Brighton!
While she spoke, Wickham looked as if scarcely knowing whether to rejoice over her words, or to distrust their meaning.
Her father had most cruelly mortified her, by what he said of Mr. Darcy's indifference, and she could do nothing but wonder at such a want of penetration, or fear that perhaps, instead of his seeing too little, she might have fancied too much.
The introduction was followed up on his side by a happy readiness of conversation--a readiness at the same time perfectly correct and unassuming; and the whole party were still standing and talking together very agreeably, when the sound of horses drew their notice, and Darcy and Bingley were seen riding down the street.
Miss Lucas perceived him from an upper window as he walked towards the house, and instantly set out to meet him accidentally in the lane.
It is only that he has better means of having it than many others, because he is rich, and many others are poor.
How strange it must appear to him!
"Your first position is false.
As for Elizabeth, her thoughts were at Pemberley this evening more than the last; and the evening, though as it passed it seemed long, was not long enough to determine her feelings towards _one_ in that mansion; and she lay awake two whole hours endeavouring to make them out.
I have, therefore, made up my mind to tell you, that I do not want to dance a reel at all--and now despise me if you dare."
"Or, in other words, you are determined to have him.
Elizabeth was exceedingly pleased with this proposal, and felt persuaded of her sister's ready acquiescence.
Darcy."
This accounted to Elizabeth for Mr. Wickham's being among them.
You must come and make Lizzy marry Mr. Collins, for she vows she will not have him, and if you do not make haste he will change his mind and not have _her_."
cried Mrs. Bennet, as she stood at a window the next morning, "if that disagreeable Mr. Darcy is not coming here again with our dear Bingley!
Mr. Bennet and his daughters saw all the advantages of Wickham's removal from the ----shire as clearly as Mr. Gardiner could do.
I knew how it would be.
It soon led to another; and Mrs. Bennet found, with amazement and horror, that her husband would not advance a guinea to buy clothes for his daughter.
He knows of my being in town, I am certain, from something she said herself; and yet it would seem, by her manner of talking, as if she wanted to persuade herself that he is really partial to Miss Darcy.
But enough of this.
But before I am run away with by my feelings on this subject, perhaps it would be advisable for me to state my reasons for marrying--and, moreover, for coming into Hertfordshire with the design of selecting a wife, as I certainly did."
"I told you, the other day, of his infamous behaviour to Mr. Darcy; and you yourself, when last at Longbourn, heard in what manner he spoke of the man who had behaved with such forbearance and liberality towards him.
And you are never to stir out of doors till you can prove that you have spent ten minutes of every day in a rational manner."
As he quitted the room, Elizabeth felt how improbable it was that they should ever see each other again on such terms of cordiality as had marked their several meetings in Derbyshire; and as she threw a retrospective glance over the whole of their acquaintance, so full of contradictions and varieties, sighed at the perverseness of those feelings which would now have promoted its continuance, and would formerly have rejoiced in its termination.
His own father did not long survive mine, and within half a year from these events, Mr. Wickham wrote to inform me that, having finally resolved against taking orders, he hoped I should not think it unreasonable for him to expect some more immediate pecuniary advantage, in lieu of the preferment, by which he could not be benefited.
As she had heard no carriage, she thought it not unlikely to be Lady Catherine, and under that apprehension was putting away her half-finished letter that she might escape all impertinent questions, when the door opened, and, to her very great surprise, Mr. Darcy, and Mr. Darcy only, entered the room.
Single, my dear, to be sure!
She could think of nothing else; and yet whether Bingley's regard had really died away, or were suppressed by his friends' interference; whether he had been aware of Jane's attachment, or whether it had escaped his observation; whatever were the case, though her opinion of him must be materially affected by the difference, her sister's situation remained the same, her peace equally wounded.
"Good Heaven!
"I should not mind anything at all."
This invaluable friend was a very young woman, and very lately married.
I am satisfied.
"In point of composition," said Mary, "the letter does not seem defective.
Mr. Wickham's chief object was unquestionably my sister's fortune, which is thirty thousand pounds; but I cannot help supposing that the hope of revenging himself on me was a strong inducement.
I thought too ill of him to invite him to Pemberley, or admit his society in town.
"Lizzy," said her father, "I have given him my consent.
"But he paid her not the smallest attention till her grandfather's death made her mistress of this fortune."
"But that expression of 'violently in love' is so hackneyed, so doubtful, so indefinite, that it gives me very little idea.
She found that she was to receive no other answer, and, after a short pause added:  "I think I have understood that Mr. Bingley has not much idea of ever returning to Netherfield again?"
Had he done his duty in that respect, Lydia need not have been indebted to her uncle for whatever of honour or credit could now be purchased for her.
They were in fact very fine ladies; not deficient in good humour when they were pleased, nor in the power of making themselves agreeable when they chose it, but proud and conceited.
Is there one among the sex, who would not protest against such a weakness as a second proposal to the same woman?
Elizabeth, easy and unaffected, had been listened to with much more pleasure, though not playing half so well; and Mary, at the end of a long concerto, was glad to purchase praise and gratitude by Scotch and Irish airs, at the request of her younger sisters, who, with some of the Lucases, and two or three officers, joined eagerly in dancing at one end of the room.
He sat with them above an hour, and was in remarkably good spirits.
Such a change in a man of so much pride exciting not only astonishment but gratitude--for to love, ardent love, it must be attributed; and as such its impression on her was of a sort to be encouraged, as by no means unpleasing, though it could not be exactly defined.
It appears to me so very unlikely that any young man should form such a design against a girl who is by no means unprotected or friendless, and who was actually staying in his colonel's family, that I am strongly inclined to hope the best.
Elizabeth felt herself completely taken in.
But what does he say of the living?"
The picturesque would be spoilt by admitting a fourth.
Elizabeth joined them again only to say that her sister was worse, and that she could not leave her.
She was a woman of mean understanding, little information, and uncertain temper.
Mr. Bennet's emotions were much more tranquil on the occasion, and such as he did experience he pronounced to be of a most agreeable sort; for it gratified him, he said, to discover that Charlotte Lucas, whom he had been used to think tolerably sensible, was as foolish as his wife, and more foolish than his daughter!
You may imagine what I felt and how I acted.
You and the girls may go, or you may send them by themselves, which perhaps will be still better, for as you are as handsome as any of them, Mr. Bingley may like you the best of the party."
The elder Miss Bennets alone were still able to eat, drink, and sleep, and pursue the usual course of their employments.
By Jane, this attention was received with the greatest pleasure, but Elizabeth still saw superciliousness in their treatment of everybody, hardly excepting even her sister, and could not like them; though their kindness to Jane, such as it was, had a value as arising in all probability from the influence of their brother's admiration.
But Mr. Bennet was not of a disposition to seek comfort for the disappointment which his own imprudence had brought on, in any of those pleasures which too often console the unfortunate for their folly or their vice.
The tumult of Elizabeth's mind was allayed by this conversation.
"Upon my word, I cannot exactly explain the matter; Darcy must speak for himself."
I am so pleased--so happy.
But I knew I should persuade you at last.
The word is applied to many a woman who deserves it no otherwise than by netting a purse or covering a screen.
At night she opened her heart to Jane.
what hours of transport we shall spend!
Mr. Wickham's happiness and her own were perforce delayed a little longer, and Mr. Collins's proposal accepted with as good a grace as she could.
"You write uncommonly fast."
But he is an ugly fellow!
but from what the report of their engagement could originate, Elizabeth was at a loss to imagine; till she recollected that _his_ being the intimate friend of Bingley, and _her_ being the sister of Jane, was enough, at a time when the expectation of one wedding made everybody eager for another, to supply the idea.
Then addressing her daughter, "Oh!
The ladies were somewhat more fortunate, for they had the advantage of ascertaining from an upper window that he wore a blue coat, and rode a black horse.
His letter was soon dispatched; for, though dilatory in undertaking business, he was quick in its execution.
"What sort of girl is Miss Darcy?"
The arrival of letters was the grand object of every morning's impatience.
"Do let us have a little music," cried Miss Bingley, tired of a conversation in which she had no share.
and his answering immediately to the last question: 'Oh!
My father supported him at school, and afterwards at Cambridge--most important assistance, as his own father, always poor from the extravagance of his wife, would have been unable to give him a gentleman's education.
cried Elizabeth.
Elizabeth then contrived to sit by her aunt.
"This is an evening of wonders, indeed!
She is a great reader, and has no pleasure in anything else."
It was some days, however, before they received any invitation thither--for while there were visitors in the house, they could not be necessary; and it was not till Easter-day, almost a week after the gentlemen's arrival, that they were honoured by such an attention, and then they were merely asked on leaving church to come there in the evening.
I should be glad to take a turn in it, if you will favour me with your company."
Even Elizabeth might have found some trial of her patience in weather which totally suspended the improvement of her acquaintance with Mr. Wickham; and nothing less than a dance on Tuesday, could have made such a Friday, Saturday, Sunday, and Monday endurable to Kitty and Lydia.
"Shall we ask your cousin the reason of this?"
But he is, beyond all comparison, the most agreeable man I ever saw--and if he becomes really attached to me--I believe it will be better that he should not.
My fingers wait your orders."
He bore it with noble indifference, and she would have imagined that Bingley had received his sanction to be happy, had she not seen his eyes likewise turned towards Mr. Darcy, with an expression of half-laughing alarm.
He merely added that he should not write again till he had something of importance to mention."
Jane listened with astonishment and concern; she knew not how to believe that Mr. Darcy could be so unworthy of Mr. Bingley's regard; and yet, it was not in her nature to question the veracity of a young man of such amiable appearance as Wickham.
I declare after all there is no enjoyment like reading!
"Really, Mr. Collins," cried Elizabeth with some warmth, "you puzzle me exceedingly.
And tell my dear Lydia not to give any directions about her clothes till she has seen me, for she does not know which are the best warehouses.
Are not you curious to hear how it was managed?"
It is a great comfort to have you so rich, and when you have nothing else to do, I hope you will think of us.
It settled the matter; and they pursued the accustomed circuit; which brought them again, after some time, in a descent among hanging woods, to the edge of the water, and one of its narrowest parts.
But if it be only a slight, thin sort of inclination, I am convinced that one good sonnet will starve it entirely away."
It was not to be supposed that time would give Lydia that embarrassment from which she had been so wholly free at first.
She stared, coloured, doubted, and was silent.
Her astonishment at his coming--at his coming to Netherfield, to Longbourn, and voluntarily seeking her again, was almost equal to what she had known on first witnessing his altered behaviour in Derbyshire.
"Mr. Wickham is the son of a very respectable man, who had for many years the management of all the Pemberley estates, and whose good conduct in the discharge of his trust naturally inclined my father to be of service to him; and on George Wickham, who was his godson, his kindness was therefore liberally bestowed.
Darcy shook his head in silent acquiescence.
Of this she was perfectly unaware; to her he was only the man who made himself agreeable nowhere, and who had not thought her handsome enough to dance with.
Every park has its beauty and its prospects; and Elizabeth saw much to be pleased with, though she could not be in such raptures as Mr. Collins expected the scene to inspire, and was but slightly affected by his enumeration of the windows in front of the house, and his relation of what the glazing altogether had originally cost Sir Lewis de Bourgh.
Dearest Lizzy, I hardly know what I would write, but I have bad news for you, and it cannot be delayed.
To Caroline's assertion of her brother's being partial to Miss Darcy she paid no credit.
You must know that I am thinking of his marrying one of them."
I have been a disappointed man, and my spirits will not bear solitude.
"Yes, indeed," cried Mrs. Bennet, offended by his manner of mentioning a country neighbourhood.
Have a little compassion on my nerves.
Darcy took up a book; Miss Bingley did the same; and Mrs. Hurst, principally occupied in playing with her bracelets and rings, joined now and then in her brother's conversation with Miss Bennet.
"My father is gone to London, and Jane has written to beg my uncle's immediate assistance; and we shall be off, I hope, in half-an-hour.
"I advise Mr. Darcy, and Lizzy, and Kitty," said Mrs. Bennet, "to walk to Oakham Mount this morning.
Lydia does not leave me because she is married, but only because her husband's regiment happens to be so far off.
They now walked on in silence, each of them deep in thought.
Are not you curious to hear how it was managed?"
"And have you answered the letter?"
She followed him thither; and her curiosity to know what he had to tell her was heightened by the supposition of its being in some manner connected with the letter he held.
She was not equal, however, to much conversation, and when Miss Bingley left them together, could attempt little besides expressions of gratitude for the extraordinary kindness she was treated with.
He did trace them easily to Clapham, but no further; for on entering that place, they removed into a hackney coach, and dismissed the chaise that brought them from Epsom.
To my fancy, it is only because he does not rattle away like other young men."
I am confident that she would have performed delightfully.
Your conduct would be quite as dependent on chance as that of any man I know; and if, as you were mounting your horse, a friend were to say, 'Bingley, you had better stay till next week,' you would probably do it, you would probably not go--and at another word, might stay a month."
His pride, in that direction, may be of service, if not to himself, to many others, for it must only deter him from such foul misconduct as I have suffered by.
"Yes, and I had heard it before.
"Because honour, decorum, prudence, nay, interest, forbid it.
Many of his expressions were still fresh in her memory.
"Oh, no!"
As we went along, Kitty and I drew up the blinds, and pretended there was nobody in the coach; and I should have gone so all the way, if Kitty had not been sick; and when we got to the George, I do think we behaved very handsomely, for we treated the other three with the nicest cold luncheon in the world, and if you would have gone, we would have treated you too.
And then we were so merry all the way home!
With his notions of dignity, he would probably feel that the arguments, which to Elizabeth had appeared weak and ridiculous, contained much good sense and solid reasoning.
She seems perfectly happy, however, and in a prudential light it is certainly a very good match for her."
"No indeed; I felt nothing but surprise."
He cannot know what Mr. Darcy is."
She felt that Jane's feelings, though fervent, were little displayed, and that there was a constant complacency in her air and manner not often united with great sensibility.
My poor father!
had I known what I ought, what I dared to do!
"Wickham is not so undeserving, then, as we thought him," said her sister.
"True," said Mr. Bennet, "but it is a comfort to think that whatever of that kind may befall you, you have an affectionate mother who will make the most of it."
When Mr. Bennet arrived, he had all the appearance of his usual philosophic composure.
But I will no longer importune my young cousin."
Well, how pleased I am!
"You did!
Every disposition of the ground was good; and she looked on the whole scene, the river, the trees scattered on its banks and the winding of the valley, as far as she could trace it, with delight.
If _she_ does not object to it, why should _we_?"
Elizabeth looked at her sister with incredulous solicitude, but said nothing.
Come as soon as you can on receipt of this.
I rather expected, from my knowledge of her affability, that it would happen.
"We can all plague and punish one another.
But the horror of what might possibly happen almost took from me my faculties."
Had they fixed on any other man it would have been nothing; but _his_ perfect indifference, and _your_ pointed dislike, make it so delightfully absurd!
She was immediately told that the two gentlemen from Rosings had each called during her absence; Mr. Darcy, only for a few minutes, to take leave--but that Colonel Fitzwilliam had been sitting with them at least an hour, hoping for her return, and almost resolving to walk after her till she could be found.
You must write again very soon, and praise him a great deal more than you did in your last.
I roused, and interested you, because I was so unlike _them_.
It would have spared her from explanations and professions which it was exceedingly awkward to give; but they were now necessary, and she assured him, with some confusion, of her attachment to Mr. Darcy.
The first part of Mrs. Gardiner's business on her arrival was to distribute her presents and describe the newest fashions.
and so did Mrs. Forster.
She was therefore obliged to seek another branch of the subject, and related, with much bitterness of spirit and some exaggeration, the shocking rudeness of Mr. Darcy.
said Jane as she finished it.
With the kindest concern he came on to Longbourn, and broke his apprehensions to us in a manner most creditable to his heart.
"I am much obliged to your ladyship for your kind invitation," replied Elizabeth, "but it is not in my power to accept it.
Mr. Darcy looked just as he had been used to look in Hertfordshire--paid his compliments, with his usual reserve, to Mrs. Collins, and whatever might be his feelings toward her friend, met her with every appearance of composure.
May I ask whether these pleasing attentions proceed from the impulse of the moment, or are the result of previous study?"
cried Elizabeth, darting from her seat as she finished the letter, in eagerness to follow him, without losing a moment of the time so precious; but as she reached the door it was opened by a servant, and Mr. Darcy appeared.
You cannot refuse to dance, I am sure when so much beauty is before you."
"She is abominably rude to keep Charlotte out of doors in all this wind.
Mary was obliged to mix more with the world, but she could still moralize over every morning visit; and as she was no longer mortified by comparisons between her sisters' beauty and her own, it was suspected by her father that she submitted to the change without much reluctance.
He addressed himself to Miss Bennet, with a polite congratulation; Mr. Hurst also made her a slight bow, and said he was "very glad;" but diffuseness and warmth remained for Bingley's salutation.
After walking two or three times along that part of the lane, she was tempted, by the pleasantness of the morning, to stop at the gates and look into the park.
Her husband allowed her to talk on without interruption while the servants remained.
"And will you promise me, never to enter into such an engagement?"
Mr. Bingley's defense of his friend was a very able one, I dare say; but since he is unacquainted with several parts of the story, and has learnt the rest from that friend himself, I shall venture to still think of both gentlemen as I did before."
She endeavoured to persuade herself that she did not regret it; but she could no longer be blind to Miss Bingley's inattention.
I should be ashamed of having one that was only entailed on me."
Such a charming man!--so handsome!
"He seems to be a most conscientious and polite young man, upon my word, and I doubt not will prove a valuable acquaintance, especially if Lady Catherine should be so indulgent as to let him come to us again."
On Sunday, after morning service, the separation, so agreeable to almost all, took place.
"Mr. Darcy is not to be laughed at!"
She got up, and ran out of the room; and returned no more, till she heard them passing through the hall to the dining parlour.
"Yes," replied Darcy, who could contain himself no longer, "but _that_ was only when I first saw her, for it is many months since I have considered her as one of the handsomest women of my acquaintance."
Mr. Gardiner expressed a wish of going round the whole park, but feared it might be beyond a walk.
On the strength of Darcy's regard, Bingley had the firmest reliance, and of his judgement the highest opinion.
Though she dared not depend upon the consequence, she yet received pleasure from observing his behaviour.
You have a sweet room here, Mr. Bingley, and a charming prospect over the gravel walk.
"Lady Catherine, I have nothing further to say.
Having resolved to do it without loss of time, as his leave of absence extended only to the following Saturday, and having no feelings of diffidence to make it distressing to himself even at the moment, he set about it in a very orderly manner, with all the observances, which he supposed a regular part of the business.
"Exceed their income!
On being made acquainted with the present Mr. Darcy's treatment of him, she tried to remember some of that gentleman's reputed disposition when quite a lad which might agree with it, and was confident at last that she recollected having heard Mr. Fitzwilliam Darcy formerly spoken of as a very proud, ill-natured boy.
"Oh!
"I beg you would not put it into Lizzy's head to be vexed by his ill-treatment, for he is such a disagreeable man, that it would be quite a misfortune to be liked by him.
"I have no right to give _my_ opinion," said Wickham, "as to his being agreeable or otherwise.
"To yield readily--easily--to the _persuasion_ of a friend is no merit with you."
"With great energy; but it is always a subject which makes a lady energetic."
"You doubt me," cried Jane, slightly colouring; "indeed, you have no reason.
Elizabeth made no attempt to reason with her mother, but remained quietly in the hall, till she and Kitty were out of sight, then returned into the drawing-room.
Tell him what a dreadful state I am in, that I am frighted out of my wits--and have such tremblings, such flutterings, all over me--such spasms in my side and pains in my head, and such beatings at heart, that I can get no rest by night nor by day.
She then proceeded to inquire into the measures which her father had intended to pursue, while in town, for the recovery of his daughter.
But of course she did not mention my name to you."
What pin-money, what jewels, what carriages you will have!
Every lingering struggle in his favour grew fainter and fainter; and in farther justification of Mr. Darcy, she could not but allow that Mr. Bingley, when questioned by Jane, had long ago asserted his blamelessness in the affair; that proud and repulsive as were his manners, she had never, in the whole course of their acquaintance--an acquaintance which had latterly brought them much together, and given her a sort of intimacy with his ways--seen anything that betrayed him to be unprincipled or unjust--anything that spoke him of irreligious or immoral habits; that among his own connections he was esteemed and valued--that even Wickham had allowed him merit as a brother, and that she had often heard him speak so affectionately of his sister as to prove him capable of _some_ amiable feeling; that had his actions been what Mr. Wickham represented them, so gross a violation of everything right could hardly have been concealed from the world; and that friendship between a person capable of it, and such an amiable man as Mr. Bingley, was incomprehensible.
Mr. Darcy, who never looks at any woman but to see a blemish, and who probably never looked at you in his life!
If she is half as sharp as her mother, she is saving enough.
The park was very large, and contained great variety of ground.
Her performance was pleasing, though by no means capital.
"Such as vanity and pride."
"My dear sir," replied Mr. Collins, "I am particularly obliged to you for this friendly caution, and you may depend upon my not taking so material a step without her ladyship's concurrence."
As that was the case, neither Jane, to whom I related the whole, nor I, thought it necessary to make our knowledge public; for of what use could it apparently be to any one, that the good opinion which all the neighbourhood had of him should then be overthrown?
pray apologise for my having disliked him so much before.
He saw Wickham, and afterwards insisted on seeing Lydia.
"Kitty and I are going up stairs to sit in my dressing-room."
She went on:  "From the very beginning--from the first moment, I may almost say--of my acquaintance with you, your manners, impressing me with the fullest belief of your arrogance, your conceit, and your selfish disdain of the feelings of others, were such as to form the groundwork of disapprobation on which succeeding events have built so immovable a dislike; and I had not known you a month before I felt that you were the last man in the world whom I could ever be prevailed on to marry."
Jane could have no reserves from Elizabeth, where confidence would give pleasure; and instantly embracing her, acknowledged, with the liveliest emotion, that she was the happiest creature in the world.
Shall you like to have such a brother?"
And their mother had the satisfaction of knowing that she would be able to show her married daughter in the neighbourhood before she was banished to the North.
"Do you not think it would be a proper compliment to the place?"
"Mr. Collins appears to be very fortunate in his choice of a wife."
Not a soul knew of it, but Colonel and Mrs. Forster, and Kitty and me, except my aunt, for we were forced to borrow one of her gowns; and you cannot imagine how well he looked!
"You know pretty well, I suppose, what has been done for the young people.
In a few days more we may gain some news of them; and till we know that they are not married, and have no design of marrying, do not let us give the matter over as lost.
She inquired into Charlotte's domestic concerns familiarly and minutely, gave her a great deal of advice as to the management of them all; told her how everything ought to be regulated in so small a family as hers, and instructed her as to the care of her cows and her poultry.
People who suffer as I do from nervous complaints can have no great inclination for talking.
They must all go to Brighton.
My conscience told me that I deserved no extraordinary politeness, and I confess that I did not expect to receive _more_ than my due."
He is so excessively handsome!
The whist party soon afterwards breaking up, the players gathered round the other table and Mr. Collins took his station between his cousin Elizabeth and Mrs. Phillips.
Had Lydia's marriage been concluded on the most honourable terms, it was not to be supposed that Mr. Darcy would connect himself with a family where, to every other objection, would now be added an alliance and relationship of the nearest kind with a man whom he so justly scorned.
Not a syllable had ever reached her of Miss Darcy's meditated elopement.
And she rose as she spoke.
He then told her of Georgiana's delight in her acquaintance, and of her disappointment at its sudden interruption; which naturally leading to the cause of that interruption, she soon learnt that his resolution of following her from Derbyshire in quest of her sister had been formed before he quitted the inn, and that his gravity and thoughtfulness there had arisen from no other struggles than what such a purpose must comprehend.
Oh!
I hope they will not meet at all.
His diffidence had prevented his depending on his own judgment in so anxious a case, but his reliance on mine made every thing easy.
I wonder what he can be doing there."
When Mr. Bennet wrote again to his brother, therefore, he sent his permission for them to come; and it was settled, that as soon as the ceremony was over, they should proceed to Longbourn.
Mr. Collins received and returned these felicitations with equal pleasure, and then proceeded to relate the particulars of their interview, with the result of which he trusted he had every reason to be satisfied, since the refusal which his cousin had steadfastly given him would naturally flow from her bashful modesty and the genuine delicacy of her character.
Elizabeth had the satisfaction of receiving an answer to her letter as soon as she possibly could.
"No," said Darcy, "I have made no such pretension.
"I should like to know how he behaves among strangers."
my dear father, can you suppose it possible that they will not be censured and despised wherever they are known, and that their sisters will not be often involved in the disgrace?"
I will go directly to Mr. Bennet, and we shall very soon settle it with her, I am sure."
She was proceeding directly to her favourite walk, when the recollection of Mr. Darcy's sometimes coming there stopped her, and instead of entering the park, she turned up the lane, which led farther from the turnpike-road.
"What do you think of _this_ sentence, my dear Lizzy?"
"My dear, do not give way to such gloomy thoughts.
And in the first place, let us hear what has happened to you all since you went away.
"A gentleman and a stranger!
She looked forward to their entrance as the point on which all her chance of pleasure for the evening must depend.
"Only think of its being three months," she cried, "since I went away; it seems but a fortnight I declare; and yet there have been things enough happened in the time.
The subject was pursued no farther, and the gentlemen soon afterwards went away.
"If you were to give me forty such men, I never could be so happy as you.
"You must give me leave to flatter myself, my dear cousin, that your refusal of my addresses is merely words of course.
We acted with the best intentions."
I wish I could see her.
It was painful, exceedingly painful, to know that they were under obligations to a person who could never receive a return.
She would not betray her trust, I suppose, without bribery and corruption, for she really did know where her friend was to be found.
His regiment is there; for I suppose you have heard of his leaving the ----shire, and of his being gone into the regulars.
She coloured as she spoke; but neither that, nor anything else, awakened a suspicion of the truth.
Were it for nothing but his love of you, I must always have esteemed him; but now, as Bingley's friend and your husband, there can be only Bingley and yourself more dear to me.
"I am no longer surprised at your knowing _only_ six accomplished women.
He answered me with the utmost civility, and even paid me the compliment of saying that he was so well convinced of Lady Catherine's discernment as to be certain she could never bestow a favour unworthily.
Elizabeth was too much embarrassed to say a word.
Two obstacles of the five being thus removed, Mrs. Bennet sat looking and winking at Elizabeth and Catherine for a considerable time, without making any impression on them.
Where does discretion end, and avarice begin?
And accordingly she did turn, and they walked towards the Parsonage together.
He was at the same time haughty, reserved, and fastidious, and his manners, though well-bred, were not inviting.
Three daughters married!
I really cannot _laugh_ at it.
"Money!
Mrs. Reynolds could interest her on no other point.
Mrs. Bennet rejoiced to see Jane in undiminished beauty; and more than once during dinner did Mr. Bennet say voluntarily to Elizabeth:  "I am glad you are come back, Lizzy."
Ignorant as you previously were of everything concerning either, detection could not be in your power, and suspicion certainly not in your inclination.
"In the first place," replied Mr. Gardiner, "there is no absolute proof that they are not gone to Scotland."
Charlotte is an excellent manager, I dare say.
But you would not wish to be dancing when she is ill."  Lydia declared herself satisfied.
"Indeed I am.
Pleased with the preference of one, and offended by the neglect of the other, on the very beginning of our acquaintance, I have courted prepossession and ignorance, and driven reason away, where either were concerned.
Let me hear what it is."
But I cannot find out that Jane saw anything of him in London.
"Oh!
Mr. Denny addressed them directly, and entreated permission to introduce his friend, Mr. Wickham, who had returned with him the day before from town, and he was happy to say had accepted a commission in their corps.
She was not sorry, however, to have the recital of them interrupted by the lady from whom they sprang.
"In nursing your sister I am sure you have pleasure," said Bingley; "and I hope it will be soon increased by seeing her quite well."
He keeps a man-servant, does he?
* * * * *  Mr. Gardiner soon wrote again to his brother.
But before she had been three minutes in her own room, her mother followed her.
The possibility of his having endured such unkindness, was enough to interest all her tender feelings; and nothing remained therefore to be done, but to think well of them both, to defend the conduct of each, and throw into the account of accident or mistake whatever could not be otherwise explained.
They were now almost at the door of the house, for she had walked fast to get rid of him; and unwilling, for her sister's sake, to provoke him, she only said in reply, with a good-humoured smile:  "Come, Mr. Wickham, we are brother and sister, you know.
She then spoke of the letter, repeating the whole of its contents as far as they concerned George Wickham.
"But if I do not take your likeness now, I may never have another opportunity."
"I should never have said Mrs. Collins was settled _near_ her family."
"It is a delightful thing, to be sure, to have a daughter well married," continued her mother, "but at the same time, Mr. Bingley, it is very hard to have her taken such a way from me.
An airing would do me a great deal of good, I am sure.
All that is required of you is, to assure to your daughter, by settlement, her equal share of the five thousand pounds secured among your children after the decease of yourself and my sister; and, moreover, to enter into an engagement of allowing her, during your life, one hundred pounds per annum.
But Lizzy!
"She is my youngest girl but one.
I am sure my sisters must all envy me.
On the very last day of the regiment's remaining at Meryton, he dined, with other of the officers, at Longbourn; and so little was Elizabeth disposed to part from him in good humour, that on his making some inquiry as to the manner in which her time had passed at Hunsford, she mentioned Colonel Fitzwilliam's and Mr. Darcy's having both spent three weeks at Rosings, and asked him, if he was acquainted with the former.
Mr. Darcy sends you all the love in the world that he can spare from me.
Pemberley was now Georgiana's home; and the attachment of the sisters was exactly what Darcy had hoped to see.
They were rather handsome, had been educated in one of the first private seminaries in town, had a fortune of twenty thousand pounds, were in the habit of spending more than they ought, and of associating with people of rank, and were therefore in every respect entitled to think well of themselves, and meanly of others.
On the stairs were a troop of little boys and girls, whose eagerness for their cousin's appearance would not allow them to wait in the drawing-room, and whose shyness, as they had not seen her for a twelvemonth, prevented their coming lower.
She is all affability and condescension, and I doubt not but you will be honoured with some portion of her notice when service is over.
"This was a lucky idea of mine, indeed!"
_that_ abominable Mr. Darcy!
"Can you possibly guess, Lizzy, who is meant by this?"
Wholly inattentive to her sister's feelings, Lydia flew about the house in restless ecstasy, calling for everyone's congratulations, and laughing and talking with more violence than ever; whilst the luckless Kitty continued in the parlour repined at her fate in terms as unreasonable as her accent was peevish.
You will be censured, slighted, and despised, by everyone connected with him.
We must trespass a little longer on your kindness."
It was gratitude; gratitude, not merely for having once loved her, but for loving her still well enough to forgive all the petulance and acrimony of her manner in rejecting him, and all the unjust accusations accompanying her rejection.
But nothing can be done--I know very well that nothing can be done.
"What think you of books?"
Send back your answer as fast as you can, and be careful to write explicitly.
Long before it had taken place my opinion of you was decided.
Elizabeth dared not lift up her eyes.
Your uncle is as much surprised as I am--and nothing but the belief of your being a party concerned would have allowed him to act as he has done.
She looked at his two sisters, and saw them making signs of derision at each other, and at Darcy, who continued, however, imperturbably grave.
The moment of her release from him was ecstasy.
I did not expect such a compliment."
His wish of introducing his sister to her was a compliment of the highest kind.
She watched him whenever they were at Rosings, and whenever he came to Hunsford; but without much success.
It was not all settled before Monday: as soon as it was, the express was sent off to Longbourn.
It is a pity they are not handsome!
More thoughtfulness and less anxiety to please, than when they last met, were plainly expressed.
Do you draw?"
But she had no reason to fear Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner's curiosity; it was not their wish to force her communication.
His choice is disinterested at least, for he must know my father can give her nothing.
She must own that she was tired of seeing great houses; after going over so many, she really had no pleasure in fine carpets or satin curtains.
"Lady Catherine is a very respectable, sensible woman indeed," added Charlotte, "and a most attentive neighbour."
They insist also on my seeing Mr. Jones--therefore do not be alarmed if you should hear of his having been to me--and, excepting a sore throat and headache, there is not much the matter with me.--Yours, etc."
She was immediately told that the two gentlemen from Rosings had each called during her absence; Mr. Darcy, only for a few minutes, to take leave--but that Colonel Fitzwilliam had been sitting with them at least an hour, hoping for her return, and almost resolving to walk after her till she could be found.
In that county there was enough to be seen to occupy the chief of their three weeks; and to Mrs. Gardiner it had a peculiarly strong attraction.
Yours, etc.,  "EDW.
It was owing to him, to his reserve and want of proper consideration, that Wickham's character had been so misunderstood, and consequently that he had been received and noticed as he was.
The subjection in which his father had brought him up had given him originally great humility of manner; but it was now a good deal counteracted by the self-conceit of a weak head, living in retirement, and the consequential feelings of early and unexpected prosperity.
Elizabeth, though expecting no less, thanked him with tears of gratitude; and all three being actuated by one spirit, everything relating to their journey was speedily settled.
He would scarcely be ten pounds a year the loser by the hundred that was to be paid them; for, what with her board and pocket allowance, and the continual presents in money which passed to her through her mother's hands, Lydia's expenses had been very little within that sum.
Elizabeth immediately began playing again.
Here you are in your own family."
But Mrs. Bennet, who had calculated on her daughters remaining at Netherfield till the following Tuesday, which would exactly finish Jane's week, could not bring herself to receive them with pleasure before.
Another entreaty that she would be serious, however, produced the desired effect; and she soon satisfied Jane by her solemn assurances of attachment.
"MY DEAR FRIEND,--  "If you are not so compassionate as to dine to-day with Louisa and me, we shall be in danger of hating each other for the rest of our lives, for a whole day's tete-a-tete between two women can never end without a quarrel.
Such was Miss Lucas's scheme; and appearances were so favourable, that when they parted at night, she would have felt almost secure of success if he had not been to leave Hertfordshire so very soon.
The tete-a-tete surprised them.
Elizabeth was surprised, but agreed to it immediately.
There can be no love in all this.
I would go and see her if I could have the carriage."
Oh, brother, how kind you are!
"If I should ever go to Brighton, I would behave better than Lydia."
He has also _brotherly_ pride, which, with _some_ brotherly affection, makes him a very kind and careful guardian of his sister, and you will hear him generally cried up as the most attentive and best of brothers."
The evening altogether passed off pleasantly to the whole family.
I do not know of any other designs that he had formed; but he was in such a hurry to be gone, and his spirits so greatly discomposed, that I had difficulty in finding out even so much as this."
Upon the whole, I am much pleased with him."
"My excellent father died about five years ago; and his attachment to Mr. Wickham was to the last so steady, that in his will he particularly recommended it to me, to promote his advancement in the best manner that his profession might allow--and if he took orders, desired that a valuable family living might be his as soon as it became vacant.
He inquired how far Netherfield was from Meryton; and, after receiving her answer, asked in a hesitating manner how long Mr. Darcy had been staying there.
It was not to be supposed that time would give Lydia that embarrassment from which she had been so wholly free at first.
"If he means to be but little at Netherfield, it would be better for the neighbourhood that he should give up the place entirely, for then we might possibly get a settled family there.
"I dare say you believed it; but I am by no means convinced that you would be gone with such celerity.
In the next room is a new instrument just come down for her--a present from my master; she comes here to-morrow with him."
But the person who advanced was now near enough to see her, and stepping forward with eagerness, pronounced her name.
You are not going to be _missish_, I hope, and pretend to be affronted at an idle report.
To these highflown expressions Elizabeth listened with all the insensibility of distrust; and though the suddenness of their removal surprised her, she saw nothing in it really to lament; it was not to be supposed that their absence from Netherfield would prevent Mr. Bingley's being there; and as to the loss of their society, she was persuaded that Jane must cease to regard it, in the enjoyment of his.
As for Elizabeth herself, this invitation was so far from exciting in her the same feelings as in her mother and Lydia, that she considered it as the death warrant of all possibility of common sense for the latter; and detestable as such a step must make her were it known, she could not help secretly advising her father not to let her go.
After sitting a little while with Jane, on Miss Bingley's appearance and invitation, the mother and three daughters all attended her into the breakfast parlour.
"How despicably I have acted!"
We passed each other several times.
Elizabeth took the letter from his writing-table, and they went up stairs together.
Miss Darcy, the daughter of Mr. Darcy, of Pemberley, and Lady Anne, could not have appeared with propriety in a different manner.
It was exactly a scene, and exactly among people, where he had apparently least to do, and least temptation to go.
It was gratifying to have inspired unconsciously so strong an affection.
though I thought it would be very good fun if I was."
The whole of what Elizabeth had already heard, his claims on Mr. Darcy, and all that he had suffered from him, was now openly acknowledged and publicly canvassed; and everybody was pleased to know how much they had always disliked Mr. Darcy before they had known anything of the matter.
He has not an ill-natured look.
Her many attractions were again dwelt on, and Caroline boasted joyfully of their increasing intimacy, and ventured to predict the accomplishment of the wishes which had been unfolded in her former letter.
"Well," cried Elizabeth, "have it as you choose.
People do not die of little trifling colds.
"Have you any other objection," said Elizabeth, "than your belief of my indifference?"
But our visitor was very obstinate.
Well!
I am sure there was some great neglect or other on their side, for she is not the kind of girl to do such a thing if she had been well looked after.
He begins with congratulations on the approaching nuptials of my eldest daughter, of which, it seems, he has been told by some of the good-natured, gossiping Lucases.
"When they all removed to Brighton, therefore, you had no reason, I suppose, to believe them fond of each other?"
If it were not allowable for him to gain _my_ affections because I had no money, what occasion could there be for making love to a girl whom he did not care about, and who was equally poor?"
Jane confessed herself a little surprised at the match; but she said less of her astonishment than of her earnest desire for their happiness; nor could Elizabeth persuade her to consider it as improbable.
"I wish I could call her amiable.
She soon learnt that they were indebted for their present good understanding to the efforts of his aunt, who did call on him in her return through London, and there relate her journey to Longbourn, its motive, and the substance of her conversation with Elizabeth; dwelling emphatically on every expression of the latter which, in her ladyship's apprehension, peculiarly denoted her perverseness and assurance; in the belief that such a relation must assist her endeavours to obtain that promise from her nephew which she had refused to give.
In this perturbed state of mind, with thoughts that could rest on nothing, she walked on; but it would not do; in half a minute the letter was unfolded again, and collecting herself as well as she could, she again began the mortifying perusal of all that related to Wickham, and commanded herself so far as to examine the meaning of every sentence.
she added, "by far too much.
Their visits to Mrs. Phillips were now productive of the most interesting intelligence.
We must not expect a lively young man to be always so guarded and circumspect.
Those to her mother contained little else than that they were just returned from the library, where such and such officers had attended them, and where she had seen such beautiful ornaments as made her quite wild; that she had a new gown, or a new parasol, which she would have described more fully, but was obliged to leave off in a violent hurry, as Mrs. Forster called her, and they were going off to the camp; and from her correspondence with her sister, there was still less to be learnt--for her letters to Kitty, though rather longer, were much too full of lines under the words to be made public.
"Mr. Darcy is not so well worth listening to as his friend, is he?--poor Eliza!--to be only just _tolerable_."
I am perfectly serious in my refusal.
"I cannot fix on the hour, or the spot, or the look, or the words, which laid the foundation.
my dear father, can you suppose it possible that they will not be censured and despised wherever they are known, and that their sisters will not be often involved in the disgrace?"
and so she asked the two Harringtons to come, but Harriet was ill, and so Pen was forced to come by herself; and then, what do you think we did?
So high and so conceited that there was no enduring him!
"A great deal of good management, depend upon it.
As yet, she cannot even be certain of the degree of her own regard nor of its reasonableness.
Collins."
"Yes, sir, I know I am.
I owe all that I know of it to another, not to you."
You showed me how insufficient were all my pretensions to please a woman worthy of being pleased."
"This is the consequence, you see, Madam, of marrying a daughter," said Elizabeth.
Convinced as Elizabeth now was that Miss Bingley's dislike of her had originated in jealousy, she could not help feeling how unwelcome her appearance at Pemberley must be to her, and was curious to know with how much civility on that lady's side the acquaintance would now be renewed.
"I have, sir."
Miss Bingley moved with some alacrity to the pianoforte; and, after a polite request that Elizabeth would lead the way which the other as politely and more earnestly negatived, she seated herself.
The girls stared at their father.
Mr. Collins was carefully instructing them in what they were to expect, that the sight of such rooms, so many servants, and so splendid a dinner, might not wholly overpower them.
Elizabeth was too much embarrassed to say a word.
"I do not at all know; but I _heard_ nothing of his going away when I was at Netherfield.
The officers of the ----shire were in general a very creditable, gentlemanlike set, and the best of them were of the present party; but Mr. Wickham was as far beyond them all in person, countenance, air, and walk, as _they_ were superior to the broad-faced, stuffy uncle Phillips, breathing port wine, who followed them into the room.
Miss Bingley, I am sure, cannot.
Jane and Elizabeth looked at each other, and the waiter was told he need not stay.
"No, indeed, I did not.
They were more disturbed, more unequal, than she had often seen them.
But he is, beyond all comparison, the most agreeable man I ever saw--and if he becomes really attached to me--I believe it will be better that he should not.
But I am willing to hope the best, and that his character has been misunderstood.
What relates to yourself, is as follows: 'Having thus offered you the sincere congratulations of Mrs. Collins and myself on this happy event, let me now add a short hint on the subject of another; of which we have been advertised by the same authority.
He still loves me, and we are engaged."
"_You_ want to tell me, and I have no objection to hearing it."
But that is nothing to us.
Jane was already so much recovered as to intend leaving her room for a couple of hours that evening.
"To yield without conviction is no compliment to the understanding of either."
In Meryton they parted; the two youngest repaired to the lodgings of one of the officers' wives, and Elizabeth continued her walk alone, crossing field after field at a quick pace, jumping over stiles and springing over puddles with impatient activity, and finding herself at last within view of the house, with weary ankles, dirty stockings, and a face glowing with the warmth of exercise.
It was absolutely necessary to interrupt him now.
She coloured as she spoke; but neither that, nor anything else, awakened a suspicion of the truth.
Before they were separated by the conclusion of the play, she had the unexpected happiness of an invitation to accompany her uncle and aunt in a tour of pleasure which they proposed taking in the summer.
But Bingley has great natural modesty, with a stronger dependence on my judgement than on his own.
They have a sharp, shrewish look, which I do not like at all; and in her air altogether there is a self-sufficiency without fashion, which is intolerable."
Mrs. Bennet's schemes for this day were ineffectual.
"And men take care that they should."
Here you are in your own family."
I see the imprudence of it.
"You are much mistaken if you expect to influence me by such a paltry attack as this.
Mr. Darcy bowed.
"I do not blame Jane," she continued, "for Jane would have got Mr. Bingley if she could.
It was as follows:  "MY DEAR SIR,  "I feel myself called upon, by our relationship, and my situation in life, to condole with you on the grievous affliction you are now suffering under, of which we were yesterday informed by a letter from Hertfordshire.
I will go directly to Mr. Bennet, and we shall very soon settle it with her, I am sure."
It appeared to her merely the suggestion of Caroline's interested wishes, and she could not for a moment suppose that those wishes, however openly or artfully spoken, could influence a young man so totally independent of everyone.
"_You_ want to tell me, and I have no objection to hearing it."
On Saturday morning Elizabeth and Mr. Collins met for breakfast a few minutes before the others appeared; and he took the opportunity of paying the parting civilities which he deemed indispensably necessary.
"Indeed, Jane, you ought to believe me.
He is his own master.
"We were born in the same parish, within the same park; the greatest part of our youth was passed together; inmates of the same house, sharing the same amusements, objects of the same parental care.
I was given good principles, but left to follow them in pride and conceit.
A younger son, you know, must be inured to self-denial and dependence."
Elizabeth immediately began playing again.
Well, now let us be quite comfortable and snug, and talk and laugh all the way home.
The country is a vast deal pleasanter, is it not, Mr.
She had dressed with more than usual care, and prepared in the highest spirits for the conquest of all that remained unsubdued of his heart, trusting that it was not more than might be won in the course of the evening.
I always thought they were very unfit to have the charge of her; but I was overruled, as I always am.
Many of my acquaintances are already there for the winter; I wish that I could hear that you, my dearest friend, had any intention of making one of the crowd--but of that I despair.
My dear Charles, what do you mean?"
my dear, dear Jane, I am so happy!
When you told Mrs. Bennet this morning that if you ever resolved upon quitting Netherfield you should be gone in five minutes, you meant it to be a sort of panegyric, of compliment to yourself--and yet what is there so very laudable in a precipitance which must leave very necessary business undone, and can be of no real advantage to yourself or anyone else?"
what hours of transport we shall spend!
But I think Mr. Darcy improves upon acquaintance."
Mary," said she, "I wish you had gone with us, for we had such fun!
I do not know whether I ever before mentioned to you my feelings on this subject; but I will not leave the country without confiding them, and I trust you will not esteem them unreasonable.
He had by that time reached it also, and, holding out a letter, which she instinctively took, said, with a look of haughty composure, "I have been walking in the grove some time in the hope of meeting you.
It is settled between us already, that we are to be the happiest couple in the world.
Jane could have no reserves from Elizabeth, where confidence would give pleasure; and instantly embracing her, acknowledged, with the liveliest emotion, that she was the happiest creature in the world.
Miss Bingley made no answer, and soon afterwards she got up and walked about the room.
But when she read and re-read with the closest attention, the particulars immediately following of Wickham's resigning all pretensions to the living, of his receiving in lieu so considerable a sum as three thousand pounds, again was she forced to hesitate.
"True.
your father of course may spare you, if your mother can.
"Oh, yes!--of that kind of love which I suppose him to have felt.
It was some consolation to think that his visit to Rosings was to end on the day after the next--and, a still greater, that in less than a fortnight she should herself be with Jane again, and enabled to contribute to the recovery of her spirits, by all that affection could do.
She had never perceived, while the regiment was in Hertfordshire, that Lydia had any partiality for him; but she was convinced that Lydia wanted only encouragement to attach herself to anybody.
it cannot be.
When she thought of her mother, her confidence gave way a little; but she would not allow that any objections _there_ had material weight with Mr. Darcy, whose pride, she was convinced, would receive a deeper wound from the want of importance in his friend's connections, than from their want of sense; and she was quite decided, at last, that he had been partly governed by this worst kind of pride, and partly by the wish of retaining Mr. Bingley for his sister.
"I think you are in very great danger of making him as much in love with you as ever."
If I may so express it, he has a _right_ to be proud."
But I am willing to hope the best, and that his character has been misunderstood.
He had before believed her to return his affection with sincere, if not with equal regard.
This is my advice.
Their visit did not continue long after the question and answer above mentioned; and while Mr. Darcy was attending them to their carriage Miss Bingley was venting her feelings in criticisms on Elizabeth's person, behaviour, and dress.
"She is happy then," said her father drily; "and her residence there will probably be of some duration."
Mr.
"Nor I, I am sure," said Miss Bingley.
Wickham passed all his youth there, you know."
The gentlemen did approach, and when Mr. Wickham walked into the room, Elizabeth felt that she had neither been seeing him before, nor thinking of him since, with the smallest degree of unreasonable admiration.
But if _we_ do not venture somebody else will; and after all, Mrs. Long and her neices must stand their chance; and, therefore, as she will think it an act of kindness, if you decline the office, I will take it on myself."
Mrs. Bennet's best comfort was that Mr. Bingley must be down again in the summer.
"No indeed; I felt nothing but surprise."
But Mr. Gardiner could not be seen, and Mr. Darcy found, on further inquiry, that your father was still with him, but would quit town the next morning.
At present, indeed, they were well supplied both with news and happiness by the recent arrival of a militia regiment in the neighbourhood; it was to remain the whole winter, and Meryton was the headquarters.
I have not forgot, you see; and I assure you, I was very much disappointed that you did not come back and keep your engagement."
Where shall you change horses?
"I mean, that no man in his senses would marry Lydia on so slight a temptation as one hundred a year during my life, and fifty after I am gone."
"Will it not be advisable, before we proceed on this subject, to arrange with rather more precision the degree of importance which is to appertain to this request, as well as the degree of intimacy subsisting between the parties?"
I _will_ leave him to himself."
My dear Charlotte and I have but one mind and one way of thinking.
To work in this garden was one of his most respectable pleasures; and Elizabeth admired the command of countenance with which Charlotte talked of the healthfulness of the exercise, and owned she encouraged it as much as possible.
I often tell my other girls they are nothing to _her_.
Consider Mr. Collins's respectability, and Charlotte's steady, prudent character.
said she.
If you, my dear father, will not take the trouble of checking her exuberant spirits, and of teaching her that her present pursuits are not to be the business of her life, she will soon be beyond the reach of amendment.
I never heard of her existence till the day before yesterday."
I flatter myself at least that you will be able to do so.
no, my regret and compassion are all done away by seeing you so full of both.
After a pause of some minutes, she addressed him a second time with:--"It is _your_ turn to say something now, Mr. Darcy.
"But you _will_ know it, when I tell you what happened the very next day."
"The garden in which stands my humble abode is separated only by a lane from Rosings Park, her ladyship's residence."
Come, Kitty, I want you up stairs."
In Darcy's presence she dared not mention Wickham's name; but Elizabeth instantly comprehended that he was uppermost in her thoughts; and the various recollections connected with him gave her a moment's distress; but exerting herself vigorously to repel the ill-natured attack, she presently answered the question in a tolerably detached tone.
Lydia's thoughtlessness first betrayed to me that you had been concerned in the matter; and, of course, I could not rest till I knew the particulars.
Mrs. Gardiner looked at her niece, desirous of knowing how _she_, whom the invitation most concerned, felt disposed as to its acceptance, but Elizabeth had turned away her head.
"And I wish my collection were larger for your benefit and my own credit; but I am an idle fellow, and though I have not many, I have more than I ever looked into."
And so you like this man's sisters, too, do you?
He _spoke_ of apprehension and anxiety, but his countenance expressed real security.
"Do you talk by rule, then, while you are dancing?"
Forgive me for having taken up so much of your time, and accept my best wishes for your health and happiness."
I wish I could say, for the sake of her family, that the accomplishment of her earnest desire in the establishment of so many of her children produced so happy an effect as to make her a sensible, amiable, well-informed woman for the rest of her life; though perhaps it was lucky for her husband, who might not have relished domestic felicity in so unusual a form, that she still was occasionally nervous and invariably silly.
Generous, good man, I am afraid he has distressed himself.
I inquired after their brother, of course.
"I am certainly the most fortunate creature that ever existed!"
"Yes, and I hope to engage you to be serious likewise."
Miss Darcy was tall, and on a larger scale than Elizabeth; and, though little more than sixteen, her figure was formed, and her appearance womanly and graceful.
I am so pleased--so happy.
"You are all kindness, madam; but I believe we must abide by our original plan."
To have his errors made public might ruin him for ever.
The rooms were lofty and handsome, and their furniture suitable to the fortune of its proprietor; but Elizabeth saw, with admiration of his taste, that it was neither gaudy nor uselessly fine; with less of splendour, and more real elegance, than the furniture of Rosings.
The housekeeper at Netherfield had received orders to prepare for the arrival of her master, who was coming down in a day or two, to shoot there for several weeks.
"But if he does it any more I shall certainly let him know that I see what he is about.
I had supposed him to be despising his fellow-creatures in general, but did not suspect him of descending to such malicious revenge, such injustice, such inhumanity as this."
Find such a woman as soon as you can, bring her to Hunsford, and I will visit her.'
Their engagements at Rosings were as frequent during the last week of her stay as they had been at first.
Elizabeth, to whom Jane very soon communicated the chief of all this, heard it in silent indignation.
My object has been to secure an amiable companion for myself, with due consideration for the advantage of all your family, and if my _manner_ has been at all reprehensible, I here beg leave to apologise."
She sat intently at work, striving to be composed, and without daring to lift up her eyes, till anxious curiosity carried them to the face of her sister as the servant was approaching the door.
They lagged behind, while Elizabeth, Kitty, and Darcy were to entertain each other.
He was storing his memory with anecdotes and noble names.
"How was it possible that such an idea should enter our brains?
Mrs. Gardiner, to whom the chief of this news had been given before, in the course of Jane and Elizabeth's correspondence with her, made her sister a slight answer, and, in compassion to her nieces, turned the conversation.
Mrs. Bennet, who fancied she had gained a complete victory over him, continued her triumph.
I have the greatest dislike in the world to that sort of thing.
We have heard nothing from town."
Give my love to Colonel Forster.
Mary was obliged to mix more with the world, but she could still moralize over every morning visit; and as she was no longer mortified by comparisons between her sisters' beauty and her own, it was suspected by her father that she submitted to the change without much reluctance.
"I think she will.
They were always moving from place to place in quest of a cheap situation, and always spending more than they ought.
It cannot be done too much; and when I next write to her, I shall charge her not to neglect it on any account.
He declared himself to be totally unsuspicious of her sister's attachment; and she could not help remembering what Charlotte's opinion had always been.
She has known him only a fortnight.
When they parted, Lady Catherine, with great condescension, wished them a good journey, and invited them to come to Hunsford again next year; and Miss de Bourgh exerted herself so far as to curtsey and hold out her hand to both.
"I assure you, I feel it exceedingly," said Lady Catherine; "I believe no one feels the loss of friends so much as I do.
Her manners were pronounced to be very bad indeed, a mixture of pride and impertinence; she had no conversation, no style, no beauty.
He was then, he said, on his way to Longbourn on purpose to inquire after her.
From what can it proceed?
Allowing for the common demands of the game, Mr. Wickham was therefore at leisure to talk to Elizabeth, and she was very willing to hear him, though what she chiefly wished to hear she could not hope to be told--the history of his acquaintance with Mr. Darcy.
"So much the better.
When she did come, it was very evident that she had no pleasure in it; she made a slight, formal apology, for not calling before, said not a word of wishing to see me again, and was in every respect so altered a creature, that when she went away I was perfectly resolved to continue the acquaintance no longer.
"_You_ want to tell me, and I have no objection to hearing it."
Besides, there was truth in his looks."
I should be sorry to think so ill of him, in the very beginning of our relationship."
She then took a large house in Edward-street, and has since maintained herself by letting lodgings.
"Yes; but he seemed to like his second better."
I shall now know how to act.
Miss Bingley said something of his never returning to Netherfield again, of giving up the house, but not with any certainty.
How wonderfully these sort of things occur!
"'Tis too much!"
I was sure you could not be so beautiful for nothing!
They look upon it as quite their own, I dare say, whenever that happens."
"It ought to be good," he replied, "it has been the work of many generations."
You must come and make Lizzy marry Mr. Collins, for she vows she will not have him, and if you do not make haste he will change his mind and not have _her_."
"I cannot see that London has any great advantage over the country, for my part, except the shops and public places.
I dare say he often hears worse things said than I am going to say.
How are you all?"
Lady Catherine hesitated for a moment, and then replied:  "The engagement between them is of a peculiar kind.
"I should not mind anything at all."
Yes, he had no engagement at all for to-morrow; and her invitation was accepted with alacrity.
"No," replied Jane, "I have not forgotten him; but I have nothing satisfactory to tell you.
His diffidence had prevented his depending on his own judgment in so anxious a case, but his reliance on mine made every thing easy.
Elizabeth walked in quest of the only face whose features would be known to her.
Sir William and Lady Lucas are determined to go, merely on that account, for in general, you know, they visit no newcomers.
Mr. Collins was punctual to his time, and was received with great politeness by the whole family.
But nothing can be done--I know very well that nothing can be done.
I am sorry for her, because, with her disposition, she may not get over it immediately.
Elizabeth had the satisfaction of seeing her father taking pains to get acquainted with him; and Mr. Bennet soon assured her that he was rising every hour in his esteem.
Steady to his purpose, he scarcely spoke ten words to her through the whole of Saturday, and though they were at one time left by themselves for half-an-hour, he adhered most conscientiously to his book, and would not even look at her.
Mr. Collins had a compliment, and an allusion to throw in here, which were kindly smiled on by the mother and daughter.
She is unfortunately of a sickly constitution, which has prevented her from making that progress in many accomplishments which she could not have otherwise failed of, as I am informed by the lady who superintended her education, and who still resides with them.
There is a stubbornness about me that never can bear to be frightened at the will of others.
"And they _must_ marry!
Mr. Gardiner declared his willingness, and Elizabeth was applied to for her approbation.
"But I hope you will get over it, and live to see many young men of four thousand a year come into the neighbourhood."
Occupied in observing Mr. Bingley's attentions to her sister, Elizabeth was far from suspecting that she was herself becoming an object of some interest in the eyes of his friend.
His plan did not vary on seeing them.
In vain did Elizabeth endeavour to check the rapidity of her mother's words, or persuade her to describe her felicity in a less audible whisper; for, to her inexpressible vexation, she could perceive that the chief of it was overheard by Mr. Darcy, who sat opposite to them.
For the last week they had seen very little of Lady Catherine or her daughter.
Pray make my excuses to Pratt for not keeping my engagement, and dancing with him to-night.
As she had heard no carriage, she thought it not unlikely to be Lady Catherine, and under that apprehension was putting away her half-finished letter that she might escape all impertinent questions, when the door opened, and, to her very great surprise, Mr. Darcy, and Mr. Darcy only, entered the room.
Pleased with the preference of one, and offended by the neglect of the other, on the very beginning of our acquaintance, I have courted prepossession and ignorance, and driven reason away, where either were concerned.
Mr.
"Did you speak from your own observation," said she, "when you told him that my sister loved him, or merely from my information last spring?"
"You are quite right.
said Jane as she finished it.
I knew you would be wishing me joy."
The evening was spent chiefly in talking over Hertfordshire news, and telling again what had already been written; and when it closed, Elizabeth, in the solitude of her chamber, had to meditate upon Charlotte's degree of contentment, to understand her address in guiding, and composure in bearing with, her husband, and to acknowledge that it was all done very well.
"I am not likely to leave Kent for some time.
"And is Miss Darcy as handsome as her brother?"
Elizabeth could not oppose such a wish; and from this time Mr. Bingley's name was scarcely ever mentioned between them.
She was to accompany Sir William and his second daughter.
Could he have Colonel Fitzwilliam in his thoughts?
To Elizabeth, however, he voluntarily acknowledged that the necessity of his absence _had_ been self-imposed.
"I should never have considered the distance as one of the _advantages_ of the match," cried Elizabeth.
Pursuing her way along the lane, she then began it.
He who, she had been persuaded, would avoid her as his greatest enemy, seemed, on this accidental meeting, most eager to preserve the acquaintance, and without any indelicate display of regard, or any peculiarity of manner, where their two selves only were concerned, was soliciting the good opinion of her friends, and bent on making her known to his sister.
We dressed up Chamberlayne in woman's clothes on purpose to pass for a lady, only think what fun!
With _your_ good sense, to be so honestly blind to the follies and nonsense of others!
"You cannot be more than twenty, I am sure, therefore you need not conceal your age."
She knew not how to support herself, and from actual weakness sat down and cried for half-an-hour.
Kitty and Lydia were far from envying Miss Lucas, for Mr. Collins was only a clergyman; and it affected them in no other way than as a piece of news to spread at Meryton.
Then addressing her daughter, "Oh!
Adieu!
She inquired after his sister, but could do no more.
To know that she had the power of revealing what would so exceedingly astonish Jane, and must, at the same time, so highly gratify whatever of her own vanity she had not yet been able to reason away, was such a temptation to openness as nothing could have conquered but the state of indecision in which she remained as to the extent of what she should communicate; and her fear, if she once entered on the subject, of being hurried into repeating something of Bingley which might only grieve her sister further.
Well!
You supposed more than really existed.
A man of honour could not have doubted the intention, but Mr. Darcy chose to doubt it--or to treat it as a merely conditional recommendation, and to assert that I had forfeited all claim to it by extravagance, imprudence--in short anything or nothing.
His former acquaintances had been numerous; but since he had been in the militia, it did not appear that he was on terms of particular friendship with any of them.
Your profusion makes me saving; and if you lament over him much longer, my heart will be as light as a feather."
I wish you had been there.
Lydia has no brothers to step forward; and he might imagine, from my father's behaviour, from his indolence and the little attention he has ever seemed to give to what was going forward in his family, that _he_ would do as little, and think as little about it, as any father could do, in such a matter."
And when I returned home, the ----shire was to leave Meryton in a week or fortnight's time.
He has not an ill-natured look.
I dare say the lace upon Mrs. Hurst's gown--"  Here she was interrupted again.
"I would not wish to be hasty in censuring anyone; but I always speak what I think."
Nonsense, how can you talk so!
"I am more likely to want more time than courage, Elizabeth.
She said no more, and they went down the other dance and parted in silence; and on each side dissatisfied, though not to an equal degree, for in Darcy's breast there was a tolerable powerful feeling towards her, which soon procured her pardon, and directed all his anger against another.
"I am far from attributing any part of Mr. Bingley's conduct to design," said Elizabeth; "but without scheming to do wrong, or to make others unhappy, there may be error, and there may be misery.
After listening one morning to their effusions on this subject, Mr. Bennet coolly observed:  "From all that I can collect by your manner of talking, you must be two of the silliest girls in the country.
"My dear madam," replied he, "let us be for ever silent on this point.
But in matters of greater weight, I may suffer from want of money.
Lydia's voice was heard in the vestibule; the door was thrown open, and she ran into the room.
The possibility of his having endured such unkindness, was enough to interest all her tender feelings; and nothing remained therefore to be done, but to think well of them both, to defend the conduct of each, and throw into the account of accident or mistake whatever could not be otherwise explained.
"I cannot be so easily reconciled to myself.
"And so was I."
What a contrast did it offer to his last address in Rosings Park, when he put his letter into her hand!
Elizabeth hesitated, but her knees trembled under her and she felt how little would be gained by her attempting to pursue them.
But, Lizzy, you look as if you did not enjoy it.
Lady Catherine was extremely indignant on the marriage of her nephew; and as she gave way to all the genuine frankness of her character in her reply to the letter which announced its arrangement, she sent him language so very abusive, especially of Elizabeth, that for some time all intercourse was at an end.
He had never before supposed that, could Wickham be prevailed on to marry his daughter, it would be done with so little inconvenience to himself as by the present arrangement.
And there was my aunt, all the time I was dressing, preaching and talking away just as if she was reading a sermon.
Her keenest attention was awakened; she longed to hear more, and was grateful to her uncle for saying:  "There are very few people of whom so much can be said.
Their society can afford no pleasure that will atone for such wretchedness as this!
He had done all this for a girl whom he could neither regard nor esteem.
With what delighted pride she afterwards visited Mrs. Bingley, and talked of Mrs. Darcy, may be guessed.
"But my father cannot.
While the family were in this confusion, Charlotte Lucas came to spend the day with them.
You may depend upon my seeking no further."
"That it ought not to be attempted.
"Pardon me for interrupting you, madam," cried Mr. Collins; "but if she is really headstrong and foolish, I know not whether she would altogether be a very desirable wife to a man in my situation, who naturally looks for happiness in the marriage state.
If this be the case, he deserves you.
I quite forgot!
I knew how it would be.
cried Bingley.
"Lizzy," said he, "I was going to look for you; come into my room."
When Lydia went away she promised to write very often and very minutely to her mother and Kitty; but her letters were always long expected, and always very short.
She says Lizzy had better have taken Mr. Collins; but _I_ do not think there would have been any fun in it.
I will take care of myself, and of Mr. Wickham too.
Kitty, who took all these threats in a serious light, began to cry.
So he inquired who she was, and got introduced, and asked her for the two next.
As it was certain, however, that somebody was coming, Bingley instantly prevailed on Miss Bennet to avoid the confinement of such an intrusion, and walk away with him into the shrubbery.
Elizabeth looked at her sister with incredulous solicitude, but said nothing.
Does he know his real character?"
Let me hear from you very soon.
He must go somewhere, but he did not know where, and he knew he should have nothing to live on.
Such a charming man!--so handsome!
Mr. Collins was not left long to the silent contemplation of his successful love; for Mrs. Bennet, having dawdled about in the vestibule to watch for the end of the conference, no sooner saw Elizabeth open the door and with quick step pass her towards the staircase, than she entered the breakfast-room, and congratulated both him and herself in warm terms on the happy prospect or their nearer connection.
The house, furniture, neighbourhood, and roads, were all to her taste, and Lady Catherine's behaviour was most friendly and obliging.
I cannot misunderstand you, but I entreat you, dear Lizzy, not to pain me by thinking _that person_ to blame, and saying your opinion of him is sunk.
"Upon my word, sir," cried Elizabeth, "your hope is a rather extraordinary one after my declaration.
And yet, upon my honour, I believe what I said of myself to be true, and I believe it at this moment.
I am truly glad, dearest Lizzy, that you have been spared something of these distressing scenes; but now, as the first shock is over, shall I own that I long for your return?
I told him, moreover, that I believed myself mistaken in supposing, as I had done, that your sister was indifferent to him; and as I could easily perceive that his attachment to her was unabated, I felt no doubt of their happiness together."
That such a consequence as _this_ could ensue, you may easily believe, was far enough from my thoughts."
"Mary and Kitty have been very kind, and would have shared in every fatigue, I am sure; but I did not think it right for either of them.
This is your final resolve!
But when you have had time to think it over, I hope you will be satisfied with what I have done.
It soothed, but it could not console her for the contempt which had thus been self-attracted by the rest of her family; and as she considered that Jane's disappointment had in fact been the work of her nearest relations, and reflected how materially the credit of both must be hurt by such impropriety of conduct, she felt depressed beyond anything she had ever known before.
Darcy professed a great curiosity to see the view from the Mount, and Elizabeth silently consented.
Mr. Wickham was the happy man towards whom almost every female eye was turned, and Elizabeth was the happy woman by whom he finally seated himself; and the agreeable manner in which he immediately fell into conversation, though it was only on its being a wet night, made her feel that the commonest, dullest, most threadbare topic might be rendered interesting by the skill of the speaker.
Mr. Collins was carefully instructing them in what they were to expect, that the sight of such rooms, so many servants, and so splendid a dinner, might not wholly overpower them.
But Jane was to go home with her, and at Longbourn there would be leisure enough for observation.
He is not at all liked in Hertfordshire.
Oh, that I knew how it was!"
Lakes, mountains, and rivers shall not be jumbled together in our imaginations; nor when we attempt to describe any particular scene, will we begin quarreling about its relative situation.
"Take whatever you like, and get away."
As we went along, Kitty and I drew up the blinds, and pretended there was nobody in the coach; and I should have gone so all the way, if Kitty had not been sick; and when we got to the George, I do think we behaved very handsomely, for we treated the other three with the nicest cold luncheon in the world, and if you would have gone, we would have treated you too.
She had never seen a place for which nature had done more, or where natural beauty had been so little counteracted by an awkward taste.
"It certainly is a most iniquitous affair," said Mr. Bennet, "and nothing can clear Mr. Collins from the guilt of inheriting Longbourn.
My father and mother knew nothing of that; they only felt how imprudent a match it must be.
"She is happy then," said her father drily; "and her residence there will probably be of some duration."
I know you will contrive it all."
"It is more than I engage for, I assure you."
They had now entered a beautiful walk by the side of the water, and every step was bringing forward a nobler fall of ground, or a finer reach of the woods to which they were approaching; but it was some time before Elizabeth was sensible of any of it; and, though she answered mechanically to the repeated appeals of her uncle and aunt, and seemed to direct her eyes to such objects as they pointed out, she distinguished no part of the scene.
By Elizabeth's instructions, she began to comprehend that a woman may take liberties with her husband which a brother will not always allow in a sister more than ten years younger than himself.
Your uncle!
I was only confused for the moment, because I felt that I _should_ be looked at.
"Lizzy," cried her mother, "remember where you are, and do not run on in the wild manner that you are suffered to do at home."
A great many changes have happened in the neighbourhood, since you went away.
"Are they indeed!"
And when her sisters abused it as ugly, she added, with perfect unconcern, "Oh!
She was less handsome than her brother; but there was sense and good humour in her face, and her manners were perfectly unassuming and gentle.
Her performance was pleasing, though by no means capital.
In nine cases out of ten a women had better show _more_ affection than she feels.
Her impatience for this second letter was as well rewarded as impatience generally is.
No arguments shall be wanting on my part that can alleviate so severe a misfortune--or that may comfort you, under a circumstance that must be of all others the most afflicting to a parent's mind.
She wished to discredit it entirely, repeatedly exclaiming, "This must be false!
The village of Longbourn was only one mile from Meryton; a most convenient distance for the young ladies, who were usually tempted thither three or four times a week, to pay their duty to their aunt and to a milliner's shop just over the way.
I was not in a humour to wait for any opening of yours.
And so, is it quite certain he is coming?"
This was agreed to, and Mrs. Phillips protested that they would have a nice comfortable noisy game of lottery tickets, and a little bit of hot supper afterwards.
He took the hint, and when Mary had finished her second song, said aloud, "That will do extremely well, child.
"I should be sorry indeed, if it were.
I do not know whether I ever before mentioned to you my feelings on this subject; but I will not leave the country without confiding them, and I trust you will not esteem them unreasonable.
I have just as much right to be asked as she has, and more too, for I am two years older."
Who is to fight Wickham, and make him marry her, if he comes away?"
No one made any reply.
There is but one part of my conduct in the whole affair on which I do not reflect with satisfaction; it is that I condescended to adopt the measures of art so far as to conceal from him your sister's being in town.
He immediately offered to fetch her others--all that his library afforded.
This naturally introduced a panegyric from Jane on his diffidence, and the little value he put on his own good qualities.
"I say no more than the truth, and everybody will say that knows him," replied the other.
Elizabeth felt all the impertinence of her questions but answered them very composedly.
"Mr.
"Compared with some families, I believe we were; but such of us as wished to learn never wanted the means.
Lydia was exceedingly fond of him.
They left Brighton together on Sunday night, and were traced almost to London, but not beyond; they are certainly not gone to Scotland."
But I can assure the young ladies that I come prepared to admire them.
Darcy said nothing at all.
The sight of Miss Lucas was odious to her.
They will have nothing else to do."
To Kitty, however, it does not seem so wholly unexpected.
"It must make you better satisfied that your other four are single."
"Undoubtedly.
"My real purpose was to see _you_, and to judge, if I could, whether I might ever hope to make you love me.
Mr. Darcy, with grave propriety, requested to be allowed the honour of her hand, but in vain.
The moment of her release from him was ecstasy.
I would go and see her if I could have the carriage."
added Elizabeth; "safe from a connection imprudent as to fortune."
She was now, on being settled at home, at leisure to observe the real state of her sister's spirits.
She is grown so brown and coarse!
"You shall hear then--but prepare yourself for something very dreadful.
Is she handsome?"
_That_ is all settled."
For herself she was humbled; but she was proud of him.
On such encouragement to ask, Elizabeth was forced to put it out of her power, by running away.
"I think I have heard you say that their uncle is an attorney in Meryton."
and turning round he looked for a moment at Elizabeth, till catching her eye, he withdrew his own and coldly said: "She is tolerable, but not handsome enough to tempt _me_; I am in no humour at present to give consequence to young ladies who are slighted by other men.
Intimate as you are, you must know how it is to be done."
Bingley was the principal spokesman, and Miss Bennet the principal object.
Mr. Darcy was eyeing him with unrestrained wonder, and when at last Mr. Collins allowed him time to speak, replied with an air of distant civility.
"I am more likely to want more time than courage, Elizabeth.
What do I not owe you!
But it was not till the evening of the dance at Netherfield that I had any apprehension of his feeling a serious attachment.
Mr. Darcy has not authorised me to make his communication public.
She was still very poorly, and Elizabeth would not quit her at all, till late in the evening, when she had the comfort of seeing her sleep, and when it seemed to her rather right than pleasant that she should go downstairs herself.
When I last saw her, she was not very promising.
"Then, my dear, you may have the advantage of your friend, and introduce Mr. Bingley to _her_."
Ever since I have known it, I have been most anxious to acknowledge to you how gratefully I feel it.
And though he exclaimed at the term, she found that it had been pretty much the case.
It is an advantage to have it so far from this part of the kingdom.
"Yes--the late Mr. Darcy bequeathed me the next presentation of the best living in his gift.
His understanding and temper, though unlike her own, would have answered all her wishes.
"I am going to open the instrument, Eliza, and you know what follows."
"Can this be Mr.
Her own thoughts were employing her.
Reflection must be reserved for solitary hours; whenever she was alone, she gave way to it as the greatest relief; and not a day went by without a solitary walk, in which she might indulge in all the delight of unpleasant recollections.
"Did it," said he, "did it soon make you think better of me?
I should be glad to take a turn in it, if you will favour me with your company."
said Mrs. Gardiner.
cried Miss Bingley, "Charles writes in the most careless way imaginable.
I _will_ read you the passage which particularly hurts me.
I should have considered it as part of my duty, and the exertion would soon have been nothing.
He has always something to say to everybody.
At present, however, I consider myself as quite fixed here."
To these highflown expressions Elizabeth listened with all the insensibility of distrust; and though the suddenness of their removal surprised her, she saw nothing in it really to lament; it was not to be supposed that their absence from Netherfield would prevent Mr. Bingley's being there; and as to the loss of their society, she was persuaded that Jane must cease to regard it, in the enjoyment of his.
"Merely to the illustration of _your_ character," said she, endeavouring to shake off her gravity.
I entreat you not to suppose that I moved this way in order to beg for a partner."
My mother was taken ill immediately, and the whole house in such confusion!"
Their visitors stayed with them above half-an-hour; and when they arose to depart, Mr. Darcy called on his sister to join him in expressing their wish of seeing Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner, and Miss Bennet, to dinner at Pemberley, before they left the country.
Elizabeth had the satisfaction of seeing her father taking pains to get acquainted with him; and Mr. Bennet soon assured her that he was rising every hour in his esteem.
How merry we shall be together when we meet!"
"Do you really think so?"
He spoke well; but there were feelings besides those of the heart to be detailed; and he was not more eloquent on the subject of tenderness than of pride.
Mamma would like to go too of all things!
But self, though it would intrude, could not engross her.
Assistance is impossible; condolence insufferable.
It does not follow that a deep, intricate character is more or less estimable than such a one as yours."
"I dare say you believed it; but I am by no means convinced that you would be gone with such celerity.
"There is a lady, it seems, a Mrs. Younge, who was some time ago governess to Miss Darcy, and was dismissed from her charge on some cause of disapprobation, though he did not say what.
For you are a young lady of deep reflection, I know, and read great books and make extracts."
The dinner was exceedingly handsome, and there were all the servants and all the articles of plate which Mr. Collins had promised; and, as he had likewise foretold, he took his seat at the bottom of the table, by her ladyship's desire, and looked as if he felt that life could furnish nothing greater.
Her disappointment in Charlotte made her turn with fonder regard to her sister, of whose rectitude and delicacy she was sure her opinion could never be shaken, and for whose happiness she grew daily more anxious, as Bingley had now been gone a week and nothing more was heard of his return.
"Mr. Wickham is the son of a very respectable man, who had for many years the management of all the Pemberley estates, and whose good conduct in the discharge of his trust naturally inclined my father to be of service to him; and on George Wickham, who was his godson, his kindness was therefore liberally bestowed.
and it was not wholly without foundation.
My good, kind brother!
He was then, he said, on his way to Longbourn on purpose to inquire after her.
"Then, who taught you?
"Your great men often are; and therefore I shall not take him at his word, as he might change his mind another day, and warn me off his grounds."
She followed him thither; and her curiosity to know what he had to tell her was heightened by the supposition of its being in some manner connected with the letter he held.
"Oh!"
Why did the Forsters ever let her go out of their sight?
Had his first appearance, or his resemblance to the picture they had just been examining, been insufficient to assure the other two that they now saw Mr. Darcy, the gardener's expression of surprise, on beholding his master, must immediately have told it.
Nothing that she could say, however, had any influence.
said Jane, faintly smiling.
said he; "that is rather singular."
I have no such injuries to resent.
"Oh!
It was an animating subject, and Mrs. Bennet seemed incapable of fatigue while enumerating the advantages of the match.
When that business was over, he applied to Miss Bingley and Elizabeth for an indulgence of some music.
you have had every care and anxiety upon yourself alone."
I cannot understand it.
They had, therefore, many acquaintances in common; and though Wickham had been little there since the death of Darcy's father, it was yet in his power to give her fresher intelligence of her former friends than she had been in the way of procuring.
Mr. Collins made his declaration in form.
If gratitude and esteem are good foundations of affection, Elizabeth's change of sentiment will be neither improbable nor faulty.
"This is delightful indeed!
"It is unlucky," said she, after a short pause, "that you should not be able to see your friends before they leave the country.
"Gracechurch Street, Monday, August 2.
Do clear _them_ too, or we shall be obliged to think ill of somebody."
But before they heard again from Mr. Gardiner, a letter arrived for their father, from a different quarter, from Mr. Collins; which, as Jane had received directions to open all that came for him in his absence, she accordingly read; and Elizabeth, who knew what curiosities his letters always were, looked over her, and read it likewise.
Her mother's ungraciousness, made the sense of what they owed him more painful to Elizabeth's mind; and she would, at times, have given anything to be privileged to tell him that his kindness was neither unknown nor unfelt by the whole of the family.
You alluded to something else.
"I was certainly very far from expecting them to make so strong an impression.
"I do assure you, sir, that I have no pretensions whatever to that kind of elegance which consists in tormenting a respectable man.
Miss Darcy and her brother appeared, and this formidable introduction took place.
She opened the door and met Maria in the landing place, who, breathless with agitation, cried out--  "Oh, my dear Eliza!
Convinced as Elizabeth now was that Miss Bingley's dislike of her had originated in jealousy, she could not help feeling how unwelcome her appearance at Pemberley must be to her, and was curious to know with how much civility on that lady's side the acquaintance would now be renewed.
This was a lucky recollection--it saved her from something very like regret.
Mr. Collins might never make the offer, and till he did, it was useless to quarrel about him.
There was now employment for the whole party--for though they could not all talk, they could all eat; and the beautiful pyramids of grapes, nectarines, and peaches soon collected them round the table.
She answered with equal indifference and brevity, and the other said no more.
There is no danger of Wickham's marrying Mary King.
"I had much rather go in the coach."
Mr. Collins received and returned these felicitations with equal pleasure, and then proceeded to relate the particulars of their interview, with the result of which he trusted he had every reason to be satisfied, since the refusal which his cousin had steadfastly given him would naturally flow from her bashful modesty and the genuine delicacy of her character.
No officer is ever to enter into my house again, nor even to pass through the village.
Miss Darcy was tall, and on a larger scale than Elizabeth; and, though little more than sixteen, her figure was formed, and her appearance womanly and graceful.
"Oh!
She will be down in a moment, I dare say."
"You expect me to account for opinions which you choose to call mine, but which I have never acknowledged.
This was spoken jestingly; but it appeared to her so just a picture of Mr. Darcy, that she would not trust herself with an answer, and therefore, abruptly changing the conversation talked on indifferent matters until they reached the Parsonage.
I do not like to boast of my own child, but to be sure, Jane--one does not often see anybody better looking.
I am joined with him in the guardianship of Miss Darcy."
I shall write again as soon as anything more is determined on.
"And your assurance of it, I suppose, carried immediate conviction to him."
But her commendation, though costing her some trouble, could by no means satisfy Mr. Collins, and he was very soon obliged to take her ladyship's praise into his own hands.
Girls, can I do anything for you in Meryton?
"Now I am quite happy," said she, "for you will be as happy as myself.
I do assure you that I am not one of those young ladies (if such young ladies there are) who are so daring as to risk their happiness on the chance of being asked a second time.
"I am afraid I interrupt your solitary ramble, my dear sister?"
But how little of permanent happiness could belong to a couple who were only brought together because their passions were stronger than their virtue, she could easily conjecture.
you mean Jane, I suppose, because he danced with her twice.
"Are you so severe upon your own sex as to doubt the possibility of all this?"
On opening the door, she perceived her sister and Bingley standing together over the hearth, as if engaged in earnest conversation; and had this led to no suspicion, the faces of both, as they hastily turned round and moved away from each other, would have told it all.
Wilfully and wantonly to have thrown off the companion of my youth, the acknowledged favourite of my father, a young man who had scarcely any other dependence than on our patronage, and who had been brought up to expect its exertion, would be a depravity, to which the separation of two young persons, whose affection could be the growth of only a few weeks, could bear no comparison.
"Oh!
"How near it may be to _mine_, I cannot pretend to say.
said Jane, faintly smiling.
Young women should always be properly guarded and attended, according to their situation in life.
You refuse to obey the claims of duty, honour, and gratitude.
He readily agreed to it.
"Pray, my dear aunt, what is the difference in matrimonial affairs, between the mercenary and the prudent motive?
"So much the better.
Elizabeth could never address her without feeling that all the comfort of intimacy was over, and though determined not to slacken as a correspondent, it was for the sake of what had been, rather than what was.
I quite forgot!
The tumult of Elizabeth's mind was allayed by this conversation.
Elizabeth replied very concisely that she was.
He is not at all liked in Hertfordshire.
"So much the better.
He left Netherfield for London, on the day following, as you, I am certain, remember, with the design of soon returning.
Let me thank you again and again, in the name of all my family, for that generous compassion which induced you to take so much trouble, and bear so many mortifications, for the sake of discovering them."
It was reasonable, however, to hope that they would not continue long.
Elizabeth then contrived to sit by her aunt.
Good-bye.
Elizabeth had heard soon after her arrival that Mr. Darcy was expected there in the course of a few weeks, and though there were not many of her acquaintances whom she did not prefer, his coming would furnish one comparatively new to look at in their Rosings parties, and she might be amused in seeing how hopeless Miss Bingley's designs on him were, by his behaviour to his cousin, for whom he was evidently destined by Lady Catherine, who talked of his coming with the greatest satisfaction, spoke of him in terms of the highest admiration, and seemed almost angry to find that he had already been frequently seen by Miss Lucas and herself.
It is not that I do not believe _my_ fingers as capable as any other woman's of superior execution."
She has the reputation of being remarkably sensible and clever; but I rather believe she derives part of her abilities from her rank and fortune, part from her authoritative manner, and the rest from the pride for her nephew, who chooses that everyone connected with him should have an understanding of the first class."
I don't know.
"Very well.
He is his own master.
My father was not only fond of this young man's society, whose manners were always engaging; he had also the highest opinion of him, and hoping the church would be his profession, intended to provide for him in it.
It was first broken by Mrs. Annesley, a genteel, agreeable-looking woman, whose endeavour to introduce some kind of discourse proved her to be more truly well-bred than either of the others; and between her and Mrs. Gardiner, with occasional help from Elizabeth, the conversation was carried on.
"Has your governess left you?"
how shall I bear so much happiness!"
I should never be happy without him, so think it no harm to be off.
"All!
Brighton, and a whole campful of soldiers, to us, who have been overset already by one poor regiment of militia, and the monthly balls of Meryton!"
Much as I respect them, I believe I thought only of _you_."
"Yes, there can; for mine is totally different.
You have liked many a stupider person."
It was not all settled before Monday: as soon as it was, the express was sent off to Longbourn.
He began to wish to know more of her, and as a step towards conversing with her himself, attended to her conversation with others.
His behaviour to her sister was such, during dinner time, as showed an admiration of her, which, though more guarded than formerly, persuaded Elizabeth, that if left wholly to himself, Jane's happiness, and his own, would be speedily secured.
To be fond of dancing was a certain step towards falling in love; and very lively hopes of Mr. Bingley's heart were entertained.
Charlotte the wife of Mr. Collins was a most humiliating picture!
They had not long separated, when Miss Bingley came towards her, and with an expression of civil disdain accosted her:  "So, Miss Eliza, I hear you are quite delighted with George Wickham!
Your father was gone, your uncle at home, and, as I said before, they had a great deal of talk together.
To this discovery succeeded some others equally mortifying.
She would not even wish for a renewal of his attentions.
But everybody is to judge for themselves, and the Lucases are a very good sort of girls, I assure you.
"I have been making the tour of the park," he replied, "as I generally do every year, and intend to close it with a call at the Parsonage.
She was not the better pleased with his gallantry from the idea it suggested of something more.
"Laugh as much as you choose, but you will not laugh me out of my opinion.
The coach, therefore, took them the first stage of their journey, and brought its master back to Longbourn.
But my dear Lydia, I don't at all like your going such a way off.
"Has she been presented?
But do not imagine that he is always here so often.
what felicity!
He _spoke_ of apprehension and anxiety, but his countenance expressed real security.
"If I should ever go to Brighton, I would behave better than Lydia."
Pardon me.
For the truth of everything here related, I can appeal more particularly to the testimony of Colonel Fitzwilliam, who, from our near relationship and constant intimacy, and, still more, as one of the executors of my father's will, has been unavoidably acquainted with every particular of these transactions.
I will not spend my hours in running after my neighbours every time they go away and come back again."
And gravely glancing at Mr. Darcy, "There is a fine old saying, which everybody here is of course familiar with: 'Keep your breath to cool your porridge'; and I shall keep mine to swell my song."
cried Elizabeth, when she had finished.
"And which of the two do you call _my_ little recent piece of modesty?"
Bennet.'
Imagine our surprise.
Every sentence of kindness was a fresh source of happiness to Jane.
Were it known to the rest of my family, I should not have merely my own gratitude to express."
The officers will find women better worth their notice.
"Pray tell your sister that I long to see her."
In spite of this amendment, however, she requested to have a note sent to Longbourn, desiring her mother to visit Jane, and form her own judgement of her situation.
"Elizabeth Bennet," said Miss Bingley, when the door was closed on her, "is one of those young ladies who seek to recommend themselves to the other sex by undervaluing their own; and with many men, I dare say, it succeeds.
"Remember, Eliza, that he does not know Jane's disposition as you do."
"No," said her father; "Wickham's a fool if he takes her with a farthing less than ten thousand pounds.
"Oh!
The evening was spent chiefly in talking over Hertfordshire news, and telling again what had already been written; and when it closed, Elizabeth, in the solitude of her chamber, had to meditate upon Charlotte's degree of contentment, to understand her address in guiding, and composure in bearing with, her husband, and to acknowledge that it was all done very well.
They were ignorant, idle, and vain.
"Thank you," said Lydia, "for if you did, I should certainly tell you all, and then Wickham would be angry."
Elizabeth could not refuse, though she foresaw little pleasure in the visit.
It pains me to offend you.
You will not find him more favourably spoken of by anyone."
* * * * *  Mr. Gardiner soon wrote again to his brother.
I am particularly unlucky in meeting with a person so able to expose my real character, in a part of the world where I had hoped to pass myself off with some degree of credit.
Mrs. Bennet, who fancied she had gained a complete victory over him, continued her triumph.
As a brother, a landlord, a master, she considered how many people's happiness were in his guardianship!--how much of pleasure or pain was it in his power to bestow!--how much of good or evil must be done by him!
She talked to Elizabeth again and again; coaxed and threatened her by turns.
She had high animal spirits, and a sort of natural self-consequence, which the attention of the officers, to whom her uncle's good dinners, and her own easy manners recommended her, had increased into assurance.
Their sister's wedding day arrived; and Jane and Elizabeth felt for her probably more than she felt for herself.
"I hope," added Mrs. Gardiner, "that no consideration with regard to this young man will influence her.
It would be dreadful!
In the first place, she persisted in disbelieving the whole of the matter; secondly, she was very sure that Mr. Collins had been taken in; thirdly, she trusted that they would never be happy together; and fourthly, that the match might be broken off.
"I am sure I shall break _mine_," said Lydia.
To this Mary very gravely replied, "Far be it from me, my dear sister, to depreciate such pleasures!
"Haye Park might do," said she, "if the Gouldings could quit it--or the great house at Stoke, if the drawing-room were larger; but Ashworth is too far off!
Had his first appearance, or his resemblance to the picture they had just been examining, been insufficient to assure the other two that they now saw Mr. Darcy, the gardener's expression of surprise, on beholding his master, must immediately have told it.
"Upon my word," said her ladyship, "you give your opinion very decidedly for so young a person.
She anticipated what would be felt in the family when her situation became known; she was aware that no one liked him but Jane; and even feared that with the others it was a dislike which not all his fortune and consequence might do away.
Her disappointment in Charlotte made her turn with fonder regard to her sister, of whose rectitude and delicacy she was sure her opinion could never be shaken, and for whose happiness she grew daily more anxious, as Bingley had now been gone a week and nothing more was heard of his return.
I always said it must be so, at last.
"MY DEAR NIECE,  "I have just received your letter, and shall devote this whole morning to answering it, as I foresee that a _little_ writing will not comprise what I have to tell you.
This part of his intelligence, though unheard by Lydia, was caught by Elizabeth, and, as it assured her that Darcy was not less answerable for Wickham's absence than if her first surmise had been just, every feeling of displeasure against the former was so sharpened by immediate disappointment, that she could hardly reply with tolerable civility to the polite inquiries which he directly afterwards approached to make.
But she is too much like her brother--very, very proud.
Have a little compassion on my nerves.
At length, however, the remarks of her companions on her absence of mind aroused her, and she felt the necessity of appearing more like herself.
Or, why did he thus come a day before he was expected?
I feel as if I had never done you justice, or loved you as you deserve."
We dressed up Chamberlayne in woman's clothes on purpose to pass for a lady, only think what fun!
If she is half as sharp as her mother, she is saving enough.
The tumult of Elizabeth's mind was allayed by this conversation.
exclaimed Elizabeth, "you are too good.
Her mother's thoughts she plainly saw were bent the same way, and she determined not to venture near her, lest she might hear too much.
Colonel Fitzwilliam was no longer an object; she could think only of her letter.
Of neither Darcy nor Wickham could she think without feeling she had been blind, partial, prejudiced, absurd.
I talked to her repeatedly in the most serious manner, representing to her all the wickedness of what she had done, and all the unhappiness she had brought on her family.
Mary was obliged to mix more with the world, but she could still moralize over every morning visit; and as she was no longer mortified by comparisons between her sisters' beauty and her own, it was suspected by her father that she submitted to the change without much reluctance.
Between Elizabeth and Charlotte there was a restraint which kept them mutually silent on the subject; and Elizabeth felt persuaded that no real confidence could ever subsist between them again.
"But to expose the former faults of any person without knowing what their present feelings were, seemed unjustifiable.
Here you are in your own family."
Let Wickham be _your_ man.
"Are you consulting your own feelings in the present case, or do you imagine that you are gratifying mine?"
The world is blinded by his fortune and consequence, or frightened by his high and imposing manners, and sees him only as he chooses to be seen."
But in matters of greater weight, I may suffer from want of money.
You and papa, and my sisters, must come down and see us.
There is not a finer county in England than Derbyshire."
You are safe from me."
He had before believed her to return his affection with sincere, if not with equal regard.
My aunt Phillips came to Longbourn on Tuesday, after my father went away; and was so good as to stay till Thursday with me.
Jane was beyond competition her favourite child.
Miss Bennet eagerly disclaimed all extraordinary merit, and threw back the praise on her sister's warm affection.
She saw the indelicacy of putting himself forward as he had done, and the inconsistency of his professions with his conduct.
Elizabeth was distressed.
Many of my acquaintances are already there for the winter; I wish that I could hear that you, my dearest friend, had any intention of making one of the crowd--but of that I despair.
Elizabeth honoured him for such feelings, and thought him handsomer than ever as he expressed them.
They had just been preparing to walk as the letters came in; and her uncle and aunt, leaving her to enjoy them in quiet, set off by themselves.
Very nonsensical to come at all!
They attacked him in various ways--with barefaced questions, ingenious suppositions, and distant surmises; but he eluded the skill of them all, and they were at last obliged to accept the second-hand intelligence of their neighbour, Lady Lucas.
And tell my dear Lydia not to give any directions about her clothes till she has seen me, for she does not know which are the best warehouses.
She felt it to be the probable consequence of her allusions to Mr. Wickham, and rejoiced in it.
"Oh, Charlotte says she hardly ever does.
You both did as much as you could in planning the marriage.
Not Lydia only, but all were concerned in it; and after the first exclamations of surprise and horror, Mr. Gardiner promised every assistance in his power.
Lady Catherine was generally speaking--stating the mistakes of the three others, or relating some anecdote of herself.
I will only say farther that from what passed that evening, my opinion of all parties was confirmed, and every inducement heightened which could have led me before, to preserve my friend from what I esteemed a most unhappy connection.
Lady Catherine, it appeared, had actually taken the trouble of this journey from Rosings, for the sole purpose of breaking off her supposed engagement with Mr. Darcy.
"If we make haste," said Lydia, as they walked along, "perhaps we may see something of Captain Carter before he goes."
Mrs. Gardiner went away in all the perplexity about Elizabeth and her Derbyshire friend that had attended her from that part of the world.
I _will_ leave him to himself."
"She did, indeed, Louisa.
He is perfectly amiable.
She was now, on being settled at home, at leisure to observe the real state of her sister's spirits.
Were the whole arrangement complete, my disappointment would be certain.
She was of great use and comfort to us all.
Darcy."
"Yes, there can; for mine is totally different.
She could neither wonder nor condemn, but the belief of his self-conquest brought nothing consolatory to her bosom, afforded no palliation of her distress.
There is a stubbornness about me that never can bear to be frightened at the will of others.
"Indeed, Mamma, you are mistaken," said Elizabeth, blushing for her mother.
The dinner too in its turn was highly admired; and he begged to know to which of his fair cousins the excellency of its cooking was owing.
I send no compliments to your mother.
"I do not believe a word of it, my dear.
